[Digital Square](http://digitalsquare.org/what-we-do) aims to enable the
global digital health community to move beyond the stasis caused by
perpetual piloting of experimental projects, strengthen the existing
ecosystem for digital health investments, and encourage new investments
from traditional and nontraditional donors.

Pursuant to the above, Digital Square supports identifying and
accelerating the use of global goods at the country level while
supporting development of new technologies through the global goods
investment process.

PATH is the prime recipient for the Digital Square grant. Therefore,
<a href="Digital_Square_Investments_in_Global_Goods" class="wikilink"
title="Digital Square Investments in Global Goods">Digital Square
Investments in Global Goods</a> is provided through subawards from PATH
(e.g., subagreements or subcontracts for grant or contract funding,
respectively, as appropriate per the solicitation type and scope of
work). Due to the collaborative nature of engagement with subawardees,
PATH frequently employs a cost-reimbursement (CR) payment mechanism in
order to allow for more significant modification over the term of the
subaward, if required. For more information, please review the
<a href="Global_Good_Investment_Process" class="wikilink"
title="Global Good Investment Process">Global Good Investment
Process</a> for implementers.

This page will introduce key elements of the grants and contracts
described above.

## Solicitation Types

A solicitation is an attempt for an entity to obtain services. There are
two types of solicitations: a request for application (RFA) or a request
for proposal (RFP). The type of solicitation indicates the type of
contracting vehicle (e.g. grant or contract), and therefore will
characterize the purpose of funding and expected relationship between
entities.

  
**Request for Application**

<!-- -->

  
An RFA will result in a grant to support programmatic objectives.

<!-- -->

  
**Request for Proposal**

<!-- -->

  
An RFP will result in contract to procure goods or services.

## Contracting Vehicles

The contracting vehicle characterizes the purpose of funding and the
relationship between entities. There are two types of contracting
vehicles: grants and contracts.

Each contracting vehicle may be implemented through a variety of legally
binding documents once fully executed by designated signatories from
each contracting entity.

It is helpful to use the terms "grant" and "contract" appropriately to
avoid confusion. Although both terms indicate legality, grant implies a
collaborative arrangement between parties to define the scope of work.
While a contract indicates a scope of work prescribed by one party to be
completed by another party. This simple distinction will communicate a
significant difference to the audience about the expectations of the
relationship between entities.

### Grants

A grant is a type of legal instrument of financial assistance to carry
out a public purpose.[^1] A cooperative agreement is a type of grant
agreement that often requires the funder's prior approval in specific
areas that are determined and identified by the funder.[^2]

The purpose of a grant is to transfer funds in order to support or carry
out a public purpose. The relationship between entities is defined by
collaboration to achieve programmatic objectives. This means that the
recipient may have its performance measured against programmatic
objectives; has responsibility for programmatic decision-making; and is
responsible for adherence to funder requirements. The recipient's
primary responsibility is to satisfy the direct beneficiaries.

#### Grant Payment Types

:\***Cost Reimbursement**

  
A cost reimbursable (CR) grant provides payment based on actual costs.
CR grants can be easily modified and allow for changes in scope, term,
and budget. This payment type also lends itself well to multi-year
grants for which quick start-up is needed, but the scope of work for
later years is not fully defined. Reconciliation of costs via financial
reporting also make it possible to issue advances (up to 20%) when
needed and ensure recipients have adequate cash on hand to complete
activities.

:\***Fixed Amount**

  
A fixed-amount grant provides the funder a specific level of support
without regard to actual costs incurred by the recipient[^3] for
example, a grant based on milestone (i.e., payment is based on
completion of an activity). Following funder review of a detailed budget
to assess the validity of proposed expenses, prices are assigned to each
milestone or deliverable by the parties. The assigned prices cannot
change once confirmed in the fully executed grant.

<!-- -->

  
This payment type is suitable for short-term projects with well-defined
scopes. Accountability is primarily based on performance and results.

### Contracts

A contract is a legal instrument to acquire goods or services for the
funder's direct benefit or use.

The purpose of a contract is the exchange of funds for good or services.
The relationship between entities is defined by procurement, with the
funder as a buyer and vendor as a seller; furthermore, it is directive
and transactional. The contractor's primary responsibility is to satisfy
the funder.

#### Contract Payment Types

:\***Cost Reimbursement**

  
A cost reimbursable (CR) contract provides payment of allowable incurred
costs to the extent (e.g., total cost or ceiling) prescribed in the
contract.[^4] This payment type also lends itself well to multi-year
grants for which quick start-up is needed, but the scope of work for
later years is not fully defined. Reconciliation of costs via financial
reporting also make it possible to issue advances (up to 20%) when
needed and ensure contractors have adequate cash on hand to complete
activities.

:\***Fixed Firm Price**

  
A fixed firm price (FFP) contract provides payment that is not subject
to any adjustment on the basis of the contractor's cost experience in
performing the contract.[^5] Accountability is primarily based on
performance and results. Payment is based on funder acceptance of the
designated outputs.

## Contracting Tiers

There are different levels of contracting, which are defined by how far
an entity is from the original source of funding (i.e., a tier). After
first, second or third tier, the term used to describe the entity within
a tier will also indicate the contracting vehicle. The level of
technical involvement and oversight by a pass-through entity will vary
depending on the funding type.

If an entity is engaging in a subaward, the entity may be referred to as
a pass-through entity. A pass-through entity will describe an entity at
any tier between the funder(s) and the last point of funding.

<figure>
<img src="Grants_and_Contracts_1.png"
title="Grants_and_Contracts_1.png" />
<figcaption>Grants_and_Contracts_1.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### First Tier

The first-tier entity receives funding directly from the funder and is
referred to as a prime awardee. In a grant, the funder may be referred
to as a donor and the awardee as prime recipient. In a contract, the
funder may be referred to as a buyer and the awardee the prime
contractor. The prime has a direct relationship with the funding entity
hence, first tier. For example, PATH is the first-tier or prime awardee
for Digital Square.

### Second Tier

If the prime recipient or contractor requires external inputs to
accomplish the work required by the funder, the prime may, if allowable
per the terms of the grant (as a recipient) or the contract (as a
contractor), engage another entity to perform the designated work. This
makes the prime a pass-through entity, as funds are passing through it
to another entity.

The second-tier entity that receives funding from the prime is referred
to as a subawardee. The prime will determine the contracting vehicle
(e.g., grant or contract) which in turn will indicate whether the
subawardee is a subrecipient receiving a subagreement or subcontractor
receiving a subcontract.

If the prime employs a grant (i.e., subagreement), the subrecipient
should expect a greater level of technical oversight. If the prime
offers a contract (i.e., subcontract), the subcontractor should expect a
limited level of technical oversight.

The subawardee's relationship to the original source of funding is one
step removed hence, second tier. These entities do not have direct
relationships with the funding entities. For example, funding provided
by Digital Square through the
<a href="Procurement_Processes" class="wikilink"
title="Procurement Processes">Procurement Processes</a> and
<a href="Global_Good_Investment_Process" class="wikilink"
title="Global Good Investment Process">Global Good Investment
Process</a> are to second-tier awardees or subawardees.

### Third Tier

If a subawardee requires external inputs to accomplish the work required
by the prime, the subawardee may, if allowable per the terms of the
grant agreement (as a subrecipient) or contract (as a subcontractor),
engage another entity to perform the work.

The third-tier entity that receives funding from the subawardee is also
referred to as a third-tier subawardee. The subawardee will determine
the contracting vehicle (e.g. grant agreement or contract), which in
turn will indicate whether the third-tier subawardee is a subrecipient
that receives a subagreement or subcontractor that receives a
subcontract.

If the subawardee employs a grant (i.e., subagreement), the third-tier
subawardee should expect a greater level of technical oversight. If the
subawardee offers a contract (i.e., subcontract), the third-tier
subawardee should expect a limited level of technical oversight.

The subawardee will follow its internal policies to the extent allowable
by the funders and flow down all funder and prime provisions from its
subagreement or subcontract from the prime awardee. The relationship to
the original source of funding for the new subawardee is two steps
removed hence, third tier. For example, funding provided by a
subawardee, who is funded by a Digital Square investment, to another
entity is a third-tier subawardee. Since the prime does not have a
direct relationship with the third-tier subawardee, generally,
third-tier subawards carry greater risk for the prime.

## Summary

Please see below for a summary of terms introduced in the solicitation
types, contracting vehicle and contracting tiers sections above.

<figure>
<img src="Grants_and_Contracts_2.png"
title="Grants_and_Contracts_2.png" />
<figcaption>Grants_and_Contracts_2.png</figcaption>
</figure>

## Terms and Conditions

The terms and conditions and subsequent donor rules and regulations in a
grant agreement or contract will be determined by the funding entity and
contracting tier. The governing document for project implementation will
be the fully signed grant agreement or contract, which will detail these
requirements. For example, see below for a summary of compliance
requirements by funding type for the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID), Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
(BMGF), and Deutsche Gesellschaft fÃ¼r Internationale Zusammenarbeit
(GIZ), respectively.

### USAID

|  |  |  |
|----|----|----|
| **Contracting Vehicle** | **Grant (Assistance)** | **Contract (Acquisition)** |
| Definitions | [2 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) 200 Subpart A](https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?SID=d9977cf6a47ddd2253c271b9b4205b34&mc=true&node=pt2.1.200&rgn=div5#sp2.1.200.a) | [Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 2](https://acquisition.gov/content/2101-definitions) |
| Governance | [2CFR200](https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?SID=d9977cf6a47ddd2253c271b9b4205b34&mc=true&node=pt2.1.200&rgn=div5#sp2.1.200.e), Standard Provisions ([US](https://www.usaid.gov/sites/default/files/documents/1868/303maa.pdf)/[Non-US](https://www.usaid.gov/sites/default/files/documents/1868/303mab.pdf)) | [FAR](https://www.acquisition.gov/sites/default/files/current/far/pdf/FAR.pdf), [USAID Acquisition Regulation (AIDAR)](https://www.usaid.gov/sites/default/files/documents/1868/aidar_0.pdf) |
| Cost Principles | [2CFR200 Subpart E](https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?node=2:1.1.2.2.1.5&rgn=div6) | [FAR Part 31](https://www.acquisition.gov/content/part-31-contract-cost-principles-and-procedures); [2CFR200 Subpart E](https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?node=2:1.1.2.2.1.5&rgn=div6) |
| Audit | [2CFR700](https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?SID=531ffcc47b660d86ca8bbc5a64eed128&mc=true&node=pt2.1.700&rgn=div5) | [FAR52.216-7](https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/CFR-2012-title48-vol2/pdf/CFR-2012-title48-vol2-sec52-216-7.pdf); [2CFR200 Subpart F](https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?node=sp2.1.200.f) |

### Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation

|  |  |
|----|----|
| **Contracting Vehicle** | **Grant** |
| Definitions | [Glossary of Terms](https://www.gatesfoundation.org/How-We-Work/General-Information/Glossary-of-Terms), [Tax Status](https://www.gatesfoundation.org/How-We-Work/General-Information/Tax-Status-Definitions) |
| Governance | [Strategies](https://www.gatesfoundation.org/What-We-Do), [Making Investments](https://www.gatesfoundation.org/How-We-Work), [Investment Policy](https://www.gatesfoundation.org/Who-We-Are/General-Information/Financials/Investment-Policy), [Evaluation Policy](https://www.gatesfoundation.org/How-We-Work/General-Information/Evaluation-Policy), [Open Access Policy](https://www.gatesfoundation.org/How-We-Work/General-Information/Open-Access-Policy), [Commitment to Grantees](https://www.gatesfoundation.org/How-We-Work/Resources/Our-Commitment-to-Grantees) |
| Cost Principles | [Indirect Cost Policy](https://docs.gatesfoundation.org/documents/indirect_cost_policy.pdf) |

### GIZ

|  |  |  |
|----|----|----|
| **Contracting Vehicle** | **Grant** | **Contract** |
| Governance | [Procurement & Financing](https://www.giz.de/en/workingwithgiz/procurement.html), [Framework](https://www.giz.de/en/workingwithgiz/74351.html) | [General Terms & Conditions](https://www.giz.de/en/downloads/giz2018-en-General-terms-and-conditions-of-contract-for-supplying-services-and-work-2018.pdf), [Consultancy Services](https://www.giz.de/en/downloads/giz2019-en-guide-procurement.pdf) |
| Cost Principles | [Financing Cost Management](https://www.giz.de/en/workingwithgiz/34529.html), [Financial Guidelines](https://www.giz.de/en/downloads/giz2018-en-financial-guidelines-for-grant-agreements.pdf) | [Financing Cost Management](https://www.giz.de/en/workingwithgiz/34529.html), [Financial Guidelines](https://www.giz.de/en/downloads/giz2018-en-financial-guidelines-for-grant-agreements.pdf) |

[^1]: Exec. Order No. 31 U.S.C. 6302, 6304, 2 C.F.R. Â§ 200.51.

[^2]: Exec. Order No. 31 U.S.C. 6302-6305, 2 C.F.R. Â§ 200.24.

[^3]: Exec. Order No. 31 U.S.C. 6301-08, 2 C.F.R. Â§ 200.45.

[^4]: 48 FAR Â§ 16.301.

[^5]: 48 FAR Â§ 16.202-1.
