The following are the Terms of Reference for the Digital Square
<a href="Investment_Review_Committee" class="wikilink"
title="Investment Review Committee">Investment Review Committee</a>.

# Background

In order to foster competition in alignment with funder expectations,
Digital Square releases <a href="solicitations" class="wikilink"
title="solicitations">solicitations</a> through a Notice (also referred
to as an Open Application Process Solicitation), which provides capable
entities the opportunity to submit applications for evaluation and
selection of the successful applicant(s).

For a Notice, applicants publicly post concept notes and applications on
the Digital Square [Open Application
Platform](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/), providing applicants
the opportunity to find collaborators and provide and receive feedback
from peers.

Digital Square will continue to use an Open Application Platform to
facilitate investments in global goods. Details of the global good
investments approved and funded to date can be found on the [Digital
Square Dashboard for
Donors](https://app.smartsheet.com/dashboards/fWHRV7CvVMMvqjcwp4cGJcM6PM26PJVpwpFWM9C1).

PATH, as an organization, and Digital Square, as an initiative, are
committed to the requirements of our donors as well as our own
procurement and selection policies. To that end, we will strive to
maintain a fair, free, and equitable competitive process for any release
of funds through Digital Square to facilitate investments in global
goods and other related digital health investments.

The Digital Square Board has been a thought leader in shaping Notices
for global goods which have been released through the Open Application
Platform. The Board has used its lens to ensure the Notices align with
the Digital Square mission and vision. In the April 2019 meeting, the
Digital Square Board determined a need for a separate review committee
for application review and recommendations. The determination was made
due to the technical nature of many of the applications and recognition
that a specialized subcommittee with a digital health technical
background and skillset, to be named the Investment Review Committee
(IRC), is needed for informed approval of applications.

# Purpose of the Investment Review Committee

The Digital Square IRC is an extension of the Board and is committed to
delving deeper into the technical content of the applications. The IRC
will represent Governing Board priorities during the Notice process. The
IRC will not participate in non-Notice Requests for Applications
released through the Open Application Platform. The IRC will consist of
a target of 4 individuals, with a ceiling of 8. The IRC will, along with
the <a href="Peer_Review_Committee" class="wikilink"
title="Peer Review Committee">Peer Review Committee</a> (PRC), help
drive technical alignment for
<a href="Digital_Square_Investments_in_Global_Goods" class="wikilink"
title="Digital Square Investments in Global Goods">Digital Square
Investments in Global Goods</a>.

# Roles and Responsibilities of the IRC

The timeline for a Notice process ranges from 3 to 6 months, and IRC
members must perform key activities during this period1. The IRC
provides technical review and direction throughout the lifecycle of a
Notice. While IRC provides technical recommendations to the Board, the
final vote on global goods investments resides with the Board. The
following are outlined as the roles and responsibilities of IRC members
aligned with the solicitation process:

## Preparation Phase

***Solicitation Preparation***

Digital Square releases up to two Notices per year through the Open
Application Platform. The content in each Notice is determined in
partnership with the investor(s) of the Notice and the Digital Square
Technical Director. The IRC will also play a role in the design and
finalization of the Notice. **The IRC will inform the design by
participating in one or more (virtual) meetings as requested with the
Digital Square Technical Director, or appropriate delegate.** During
this call, the Technical Director will provide an overview of the
intended investment, illustrate its alignment with the Digital Square
investment roadmap, and update the IRC on discussions with investors in
the Notice to date. The IRC will provide feedback on the scope of the
Notice solicitation(s) and help re-align as needed, bridging their
technical expertise of global goods and the state of global digital
health goods scale in lower- and middle-income countries (LMICs). Before
and/or after these meetings, Digital Square will share the draft of the
Notice solicitation(s) and request IRC members to review and offer
feedback within 10 business days.

In addition to the above, there may be ad hoc requests for IRC members
to join calls with investors to further discuss Notice activities.

## Solicitation Phase

***Concept note review***

Once the Notice is launched, applicants will submit concept notes on the
Digital Square OAP Platform. IRC members are encouraged, but not
required, to provide comments through the platform, offering feedback on
the concept note.

## Application Phase

***Preliminary technical application comment period review***

There is a specified period for the community at large to provide
feedback on full applications. **IRC members are encouraged, but not
required, to provide comments through the platform, offering feedback on
the technical applications.**

## Review & Investment Phase

**The IRC will (virtually) convene to review the feedback from the peer
review committee (PRC) and put forward investment recommendations to the
Board.** This convening will be chaired by the Digital Square Technical
Director and the Partnerships Manager. Prior to the convening, Digital
Square will share the feedback and evaluations from the PRC and IRC,
along with any investor feedback regarding the applicants (if
applicable). The goal of the convening will be to review the feedback.
The Board will vote to approve the funding recommendations through a
Board meeting (virtual or in person).

# IRC Member Nominations and Approvals

Digital Square <a href="Board" class="wikilink" title="Board">Board</a>
members may self-nominate to join the IRC or nominate an individual with
senior digital health technical expertise. All nominations should be
communicated to the Board Chair, or delegate on the Digital Square team.
Nominees must fulfill the technical requirements for IRC members (see
below).

Nominations including a profile of each nominee will be shared with the
Board via email. At least four Board members must approve IRC nominees
in writing within 10 business days. If a nominee is a Board member, they
are recused from voting. If two or more Board members challenge a
nomination, the approval will be delayed while Digital Square works to
better understand the issues surrounding the nomination. It will be up
to the Digital Square Chair to determine if a Board vote should be
revisited or if the nomination should be suspended.

Once the Board approval is received, Digital Square will notify the
nominees and sign an Agreement with each IRC member, outlining the roles
and responsibilities.

# IRC Member Technical Requirements

IRC members are expected to possess knowledge of global digital health
solutions including global goods, high level needs for system
interoperability, and a broad stroke understanding of what is needed for
scale and adaptation in countries. The following are specific technical
requirements for IRC members:

- Fluency in global health informatics, information technology, software
  development, and/or interoperability.
- Expertise in regional and global digital health systems, including an
  understanding of scale and adaptation of software and systems at the
  country level.
- Endorsement and promotion of the Principles for Digital Development.
- Willingness to comply with participation requirements as described in
  this policy.

# Term

The Digital Square IRC is a volunteer role. If the IRC member is a
self-nominated Board member they may remain on the IRC for as long as
they hold their Board seat. If they step down from the Board, they
resign from the IRC.

IRC members who have been nominated by Board members may remain on the
IRC for up to three years effective the date the Agreement is fully
executed. If an IRC member wishes to remain on the IRC beyond three
years, they must secure a nomination from an active Board member and go
through the approval process noted above. The IRC member needs to
formally notify Digital Square if he/she is unable to fulfill his/her
responsibilities (temporarily or permanently) at any time during the
lifecycle of the Notice. If an IRC member wishes to resign from the IRC
before their three-year term is up, they must resign by providing at
least thirty (30) business days written notice to Digital Square at
<digitalsquare@path.org>.

## Termination

The Investment Review Committee Membership Agreement may terminated by
PATH (a) immediately upon written notice for any failure to report a
conflict of interest or failure to participate in two (2) consecutive
Notice application review processes; or (b) immediately upon written
notice for any other breach by Investment Review Committee Member of the
Agreement that is not cured within thirty (30) days.

## Resignation

A IRC Member may resign by providing at least thirty (30) business days
written notice to Digital Square at <digitalsquare@path.org>.

# Conflict of Interest

IRC members will abide by Digital Square's
<a href="Governing_Board_Conflict_of_Interest_and_Recusal_Policy"
class="wikilink"
title="Governing Board Conflict of Interest and Recusal Policy">Governing
Board Conflict of Interest and Recusal Policy</a>.

# Investment Review Committee member Conflict of Interest and Recusal Policy

Conflicts of interest of varying degrees of significance or nature may
arise in the conduct of the IRC's operations. A conflict of interest in
and of itself is not wrong and may not be unethical, but those involved
in the review process for applications submitted in response to Notices
must take appropriate action to ensure disclosure of any actual,
perceived, or potential conflicts of interest. The purpose of the
conflict of interest and recusal policy is to protect the integrity and
reputation of the IRC's review and recommendation-making processes,
particularly as such review and recommendations of the IRC may result in
the allocation of resources. The conflicts of interest and recusal
policy establishes procedures to identify, evaluate, and address any
actual, perceived, or potential conflicts that may arise, and all IRC
Members must comply with such procedures and the conflict of interest
and recusal policy. As a basic principle, such conflicts must be
resolved in the favor of Digital Square.

## Conflict of Interest and Recusal Policy Definitions

**Family member(s)**

A IRC Member's grandparents, parents/guardians, spouse/domestic partner,
siblings, children/dependents, and/or grandchildren.

**Conflict of interest**

A situation where a IRC Member has an actual, perceived, or potential
organizational or financial/personal interest, as defined below, that
may:

- Affect the conduct of his/her duties and responsibilities with respect
  to Digital Square.
- Create the perception that the IRC Member is using his/her position in
  Digital Square for organizational or personal financial gain at the
  expense of Digital Square.

**Organizational interest**

An organizational interest arises when a IRC Member is an officer,
director, trustee, partner, or (negotiating to become) an employee of an
entity that may benefit financially from an application on which he/she
would make a recommendation.

**Financial/personal interest**

An IRC Member has a financial/personal interest when he/she or any
family member may benefit financially or in any other significant way
from a transaction or other financial arrangement between Digital Square
and an entity with which the IRC Member has:

- An ownership or investment interest.
- A senior leadership or board member position (whether paid or unpaid).
- A direct or indirect compensation arrangement, including through a
  business, investment, or family member, or in the form of substantial
  gifts or favors.
- A potential in securing any of the above.

## Conflict of Interest Established

IRC Members will not use their position of influence to secure any
financial gain for themselves, their family members, or the
organizations with which they are affiliated. There are several
possibilities for determining whether an actual, perceived, or potential
conflict exists, including but not limited to:

- A IRC Member discloses that he/she has an actual, perceived, or
  potential conflict.
- The IRC determines an actual, perceived, or potential conflict exists.
- The Board of Digital Square determines an actual, perceived, or
  potential conflict exists.

## Categories of Interest

Interests can generally be categorized according to the following types:

- *Direct:* A direct interest in any Board decision to allocate funds
  may be established when a IRC Member directly benefits from such a
  decision through an organizational or personal/financial interest.
- *Indirect:* An indirect interest in any Board decision to allocate
  funds may be established when a IRC Member indirectly benefits from
  such a decision through an organizational or financial/personal
  interest.

## Duty to Disclose

IRC Members must disclose any actual or perceived conflict of interest
upon execution of the Peer Review Committee Membership Agreement. In the
event a IRC Member is or becomes aware of an actual or perceived
conflict of interest thereafter, including before or during any review
of applications in relation to any given Notice, then the IRC Member
shall promptly disclose organizational and/or financial/personal
interests and the nature of such interest when he/she becomes aware that
a conflict exists, could be perceived to exist, or is likely to occur by
completing and submitting the Conflict of Interest Disclosure Form to
<digitalsquare@path.org>.

## Recusal

Should a IRC Member disclose an actual, perceived, or potential conflict
of interest relevant to a Board decision, he or she will recuse him or
herself from the Notice application review process.

## Failure to Disclose Conflict of Interest

Failure to disclose a conflict of interest or disputes over whether a
conflict exists may be referred to the IRC for resolution. Failure to
disclose a personal or financial interest by a IRC Member will
invalidate any relevant Notice application reviews and may result in
immediate dismissal from the IRC. Should any IRC Member have reasonable
cause to believe that another IRC Member has failed to disclose an
actual, perceived, or potential conflict of interest, he or she will
inform the Board. The IRC Member will have an opportunity to explain the
alleged failure to disclose. The reporting IRC Member should have
reasonable grounds for suspecting a violation and must only make such a
report in good faith. Knowingly reporting false or frivolous information
is contrary to this Policy.
