This is the Membership Policy of the Digital Square
<a href="Peer_Review_Committee" class="wikilink"
title="Peer Review Committee">Peer Review Committee</a>. The Membership
Policy of the Digital Square Peer Review Committee has been approved by
the Board. Any substantive changes to the policies require board
approval.

## Purpose

The purpose of this Digital Square Peer Review Committee Membership
Policy is to delineate the criteria for membership on the Peer Review
Committee of Digital Square. This Policy also describes the process with
which each Peer Review Committee Member must comply to address conflicts
of interest. Additionally, this Policy includes information on the
composition of the PRC, the roles and responsibilities of PRC Members,
an overview of the process for evaluation of applications submitted to
Digital Square, commitment level expectations and collaboration
requirements of PRC Members, and other membership terms for the Peer
Review Committee.

## Roles and Responsibilities of the Peer Review Committee

The PRC plays a critical role as technical experts in assessing the
technical and programmatic appropriateness of submitted concept notes
and applications in response to Notices. The PRC provides feedback on
applications, which helps the
<a href="Board" class="wikilink" title="Board">Board</a> to prioritize
investments in high-quality digital health products and services. The
PRC is not a governing body, and its recommendations are non-binding on
the Board.

Each PRC Member is encouraged to be an advocate for Digital Square and
promote, as appropriate, participation and engagement in response to
Notices. PRC Members are also encouraged to offer feedback on concept
notes and applications during the Concept Note Review and Application
Co-creation steps of the OAP.

PRC Members are required to review submitted applications against
Digital Squareâs articulated prioritization framework. Applications
receiving high scores from the PRC will be evaluated, and
recommendations made to the Board, by Digital Square. Such
recommendations will be based on funding round objectives, donor
priorities, and Digital Squareâs vision. The Board will make final
decisions on allocation and funding of applications. In some cases, the
donor will determine funding of applications.

To facilitate the review of applications, Digital Square will assign
applications to PRC Members for review. For each application, a PRC
Member must submit his or her feedback, using the Digital Square
Feedback Form, on each of the categories described in the Digital
Squareâs Prioritization Framework, including impact, cost, technology,
and probability of success. In addition, the PRC Member must assign
green-, amber-, or red-lit status on each application. A green-lit
application meets all criteria for selection for investment described in
the applicable Notice, including demonstrating that such global good
aligns with country priorities, can be adapted to different countries
and contexts, and will scale easily across countries. An amber-lit
application meets at least one of the criteria for selection for
investment as described in the applicable Notice, but a potential risk
has been identified and will need to be addressed by the submitter of
the application. A red-lit application does not meet any of the criteria
for investment described in the applicable Notice, or there is high-risk
identified in the submitterâs ability to meet the objectives.

## Composition

The PRC comprises a diverse set of the foremost leaders and thinkers in
digital health technology including individuals from country
governments, donor organizations, implementing organizations, technology
vendors, and other constituencies. The PRC does not have a limit on the
number of Members.

Digital Squareâs goal is for the PRC to be made up of a group of
well-rounded members with technical expertise, experience implementing
global goods with governments, health workers and clients in countries,
and/or individuals who serve as investors in global digital health
including global goods. PRC Members must meet the following membership
criteria:

- Be recognized as an expert in global health informatics, information
  technology, software development, and/or interoperability.
- Have expertise in regional and global digital health systems.
- Be willing to comply with required participation requirements as
  described in this policy.

## Commitment and Collaboration

The success of cocreation and collaboration for Notices through the Open
Application Process (OAP) platform is dependent on active participation
of PRC Members and adherence to the expectations outlined in this
policy. PRC Members must comply with the roles and responsibilities
outlined in this Policy and the Agreement for the Digital Square Peer
Review Committee.

Each PRC Member must make him or herself available and commit his or her
time to participating in the OAP, including reviewing and scoring all
applications assigned. Digital Square will provide additional details on
the number of expected applications that each PRC Member will be asked
to review for each Notice.

During the PRC Review step of the Review and Investment Phase, as
described in Attachment A, each PRC Member commits to reviewing,
providing feedback, and scoring applications assigned to such PRC
Member, using the Digital Square Feedback Form designated and by the
deadline provided by Digital Square. While it may vary for each Notice,
it is anticipated that each Notice period will occur over a three to
four-month time frame. PRC Members are required to spend two to five
business days reviewing and providing feedback on applications.
Additionally, Digital Square may request PRC Members to attend ad hoc
meetings, participate in reading days, and engage in virtual
communications as needed.

PRC Members are requested to advocate for Digital Square and promote
Notice announcements among their networks. PRC Members should be willing
to engage in discussion of ideas and dialogue with persons who submit
concept notes and applications through the OAP platform and must share
honest and unbiased feedback of assigned applications with Digital
Square.

Finally, PRC Members must demonstrate the ability, commitment, and
enthusiasm to act as an ambassador and advocate for the Principles for
Digital Development as articulated at <https://digitalprinciples.org/>.
The Principles for Digital Development are a set of living guidance
principles intended to help individuals at organizations leading or
working in digital development succeed in applying digital technologies
to information and communications technology (ICT) development programs.
In accordance with their respective roles in the digital health
community, PRC Members will act in good faith to further the best
interests of the development of digital health global goods.

## Term

**Term Length**

There is no maximum term length for PRC membership. However, each PRC
Member should plan to participate for a minimum of one (1) year to
ensure continuity of the PRC and each Peer Review Committee Membership
Agreement is for a period of one (1) year only. PRC membership will be
reviewed on an annual basis. Peer Review Committee Membership Agreements
may be updated annually, as appropriate, to correspond with changes in
the member organization or this Policy.

**Termination**

The Peer Review Committee Membership Agreement may terminated by PATH
(a) immediately upon written notice for any failure to report a conflict
of interest or failure to participate in two (2) consecutive Notice
application review processes; or (b) immediately upon written notice for
any other breach by Peer Review Committee Member of the Agreement that
is not cured within thirty (30) days.

**Resignation**

A PRC Member may resign by providing at least thirty (30) business days
written notice to the Digital Square contacts.

# Conflict of Interest and Recusal Policy

Conflicts of interest of varying degrees of significance or nature may
arise in the conduct of the PRCâs operations. A conflict of interest in
and of itself is not wrong and may not be unethical, but those involved
in the review process for applications submitted in response to Notices
must take appropriate action to ensure disclosure of any actual,
perceived, or potential conflicts of interest. The purpose of the
conflict of interest and recusal policy is to protect the integrity and
reputation of the PRCâs review and recommendation-making processes,
particularly as such review and recommendations of the PRC may result in
the allocation of resources. The conflicts of interest and recusal
policy establishes procedures to identify, evaluate, and address any
actual, perceived, or potential conflicts that may arise, and all PRC
Members must comply with such procedures and the conflict of interest
and recusal policy. As a basic principle, such conflicts must be
resolved in the favor of Digital Square.

## Definitions

**PRC Member(s):** An individual with digital health, global health,
health informatics, and/or health policy expertise.

**Family member(s):** A PRC Memberâs grandparents, parents/guardians,
spouse/domestic partner, siblings, children/dependents, and/or
grandchildren.

**Conflict of interest:** A situation where a PRC Member has an actual,
perceived, or potential organizational or financial/personal interest,
as defined below, that may:

:\* Affect the conduct of his/her duties and responsibilities with
respect to Digital Square.

:\* Create the perception that the PRC Member is using his/her position
in Digital Square for organizational or personal financial gain at the
expense of Digital Square. **Organizational interest:** An
organizational interest arises when a PRC Member is an officer,
director, trustee, partner, or (negotiating to become) an employee of an
entity that may benefit financially from an application on which he/she
would make a recommendation. **Financial/personal interest:** A PRC
Member has a financial/personal interest when he/she or any family
member may benefit financially or in any other significant way from a
transaction or other financial arrangement between Digital Square and an
entity with which the PRC Member has:

:\* An ownership or investment interest.

:\* A senior leadership or board member position (whether paid or
unpaid).

:\* A direct or indirect compensation arrangement, including through a
business, investment, or family member, or in the form of substantial
gifts or favors.

:\* A potential in securing any of the above.

## Conflict of interest established

PRC Members will not use their position of influence to secure any
financial gain for themselves, their family members, or the
organizations with which they are affiliated. There are several
possibilities for determining whether an actual, perceived, or potential
conflict exists:

- A PRC Member discloses that he/she has an actual, perceived, or
  potential conflict.
- The Chair determines an actual, perceived, or potential conflict
  exists.
- The PRC determines an actual, perceived, or potential conflict exists.
- The <a href="Board" class="wikilink" title="Board">Board</a> of
  Digital Square determines an actual, perceived, or potential conflict
  exists.

## Categories of interest

Interests can generally be categorized according to the following types:

- Direct: A direct interest in any PRC recommendation may be established
  when a PRC Member directly benefits from such a recommendation through
  an organizational or personal/financial interest.
- Indirect: An indirect interest in any PRC recommendation may be
  established when a PRC Member indirectly benefits from such a
  recommendation through an organizational or financial/personal
  interest.

## Duty to disclose

A PRC Member must disclose organizational and/or financial/personal
interests and the nature of such interest when he/she becomes aware that
a conflict exists, could be perceived to exist, or is likely to occur
through the Conflict of Interest Disclosure Form.

## Recusal

Should a PRC Member disclose an actual, perceived, or potential conflict
of interest relevant to a Board decision, he or she will recuse him or
herself from the Notice application review process. Should an actual,
perceived, or potential conflict of interest apply to the Chairperson
during the course of the review of applications in response to a given
Notice, the Chairperson will disclose the conflict, recuse him or
herself, and appoint a temporary Chairperson to call for the Board to
vote to appoint a new PRC Chairperson for the relevant Notice.

## Failure to disclose

Failure to disclose a conflict of interest or disputes over whether a
conflict exists may be referred to the PRC for resolution. Failure to
disclose a personal or financial interest by a PRC Member will
invalidate any relevant Notice application reviews and may result in
immediate dismissal from the PRC. Should any PRC Member have reasonable
cause to believe that another PRC Member has failed to disclose an
actual, perceived, or potential conflict of interest, he or she will
inform the Chairperson. The PRC Member will have an opportunity to
explain the alleged failure to disclose. The reporting PRC Member should
have reasonable grounds for suspecting a violation and must only make
such a report in good faith. Knowingly reporting false or frivolous
information is contrary to this Policy.

# Membership

All seats on the PRC are allocated to individuals who are experts in
digital health. Membership is confirmed via membership agreements
between the individual member and PATH.

## Member Selection Process

The Digital Square Contacts maintain oversight of the inclusion of new
members to the PRC. Digital Square seeks to maintain a balance of expert
peers who possess technical and implementation experience in digital
health information systems, as well as leaders in advocacy and policy in
digital health. Digital Square may recruit members to the PRC to ensure
equity, balance, and diversification of the PRC; however, individuals
can also apply to join the PRC. Should an individual wish to apply to be
a member of the PRC, he or she must complete a PRC application form,
available upon request, which will be reviewed by the Digital Square
Contacts. Applicants will be notified within three weeks of completing
the PRC application form as to whether they are accepted to the PRC. For
more information about how to join the PRC and to request an application
form, please contact the Digital Square Partnerships & Community
Engagement Manager at vrathod@path.org.

# Digital Square Contacts

The Digital Square Contacts are as follows:

- Carl Fourie, PRC Chairperson and Deputy Director of Global Goods,
  cfourie@path.org.
- Vrunda Rathod, Digital Square Partnerships & Community Engagement
  Manager, vrathod@path.org.
- Caroline Osborne, Project Administrator, cosborne@path.org.
