# Community Health Toolkit

The Community Health Toolkit (CHT) is a digital public good that
supports health workers as they deliver care in reimagined health
systems. The CHT includes a collection of open-source software (OSS)
frameworks and applications, with resources to help partners design and
deploy digital tools (“apps”) for care teams with the support of an
active community of collaborators. The CHT is able to support care
coordination for antenatal care, postnatal care, non-communicable
diseases, immunizations, integrated community case management, and
nearly any infectious disease, including TB, HIV, and most recently,
COVID-19. The CHT’s modular tools work together as an integrated
platform for infectious disease preparedness, surveillance, and response
as well as routine community health services, and can be quickly
configured for specific partner needs.

Apps built using the CHT Core Framework can support many languages, run
offline-first, and work with basic phones (via SMS), smartphones (via
Android apps), tablets, and computers. App developers can define health
system roles, permissions and reporting hierarchies, and leverage five
highly configurable areas of functionality: messaging, task and schedule
management, decision support workflows, longitudinal person profiles,
and analytics. While frontline teams use apps built on the CHT for
doorstep care coordination, managers and decision-makers use tools for
performance management of CHWs, continuous program impact monitoring and
evaluation, and data-driven resource planning and population health
management.

### Approach

The CHT is a leading open-source platform for digital health and
advanced community health systems. It is the only fully open,
human-centered, scalable digital solution that is designed specifically
for last mile health delivery. The CHT is a collection of free and
open-source technologies; open-access design, technical, and implementer
resources; and a community of practice. The Core Framework is able to
support care coordination for antenatal care, postnatal care,
non-communicable diseases, commodity stock monitoring, immunizations,
integrated community case management, and nearly any infectious disease,
including TB, HIV, and COVID-19.

The Core Framework of the CHT, developed and maintained by Medic,
provides a foundation on which developers can build new workflows,
decreasing the time and resources required to build full-featured and
ready-to-scale digital health apps, unlocking new opportunities to
improve patient care.

The CHT supports approximately 40,000 frontline community health workers
(CHWs), CHW supervisors, nurses, and facility-based teams implementing
community health systems. While frontline teams use apps built on the
CHT for doorstep care coordination, managers and decision-makers use
tools for performance management of CHWs, continuous program impact
monitoring and evaluation, and data-driven resource planning and
population health management.

### Implementations

Apps powered by the CHT currently support nearly 40,000 health workers
in 15 countries across Africa and Asia (Burundi, Democratic Republic of
the Congo, India, Kenya, Malawi, Mali, Nepal, Niger, Philippines, South
Africa, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, and Zimbabwe. To-date, health workers
using CHT apps have conducted over 85 million health care activities.

Additionally, Medic partners with Ministries of Health and local
governments to design, implement, embed, and scale digital health tools
in the national health system with a focus on government adoption and
ownership Six governments (Kenya, Mali, Nepal, Niger, Uganda, and
Zanzibar) have selected the CHT as a digital community platform of
choice, with roadmaps to scale to their collective 350,000 CHWs. Medic
and the CHT community are supporting these governments to deploy and
scale CHT-based tools alongside public and private implementing and
technical partners.

### Resources

- Website: <https://communityhealthtoolkit.org>
- Source Code: <https://github.com/medic/cht-core>
- Articles:
  <https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0By87R494_wpBRlJGS052bUVLUzA?resourcekey=0-xEvAOQKY86-qWky9VTvUE>
