# Open Boxes

OpenBoxes is a purpose-built open source logistics management
information system designed to serve the supply-chain management demands
of public health systems.

### Approach

OpenBoxes is an LMIS system designed for use in health systems. It can
be used to track the purchase, shipment, inventory, and delivery of
medical or non-medical supplies. OpenBoxes includes lot and expiry
tracking and product handling indications for better management of
medical products. It also has specific tools designed to manage
distribution of medical items within health facilities.

### Implementations

The largest implementation of OpenBoxes is in Haiti, where it is used in
12 government-run hospitals with the support of Partners in Health.
Partners in Health also uses the software for supported facilities in 5
additional countries. OpenBoxes has been implemented by the government
in the State of Mexico, and is currently being implemented by the MOHSS
Dominica for their Central Medical Store. Several small non-profits in
the Caribbean and Africa use the software to manage their logistics.
Commercial entities also use the software, most notably the Commonwealth
Games in the UK.

Countries the tool is currently being used: Africa region - Liberia,
Madagascar, Malawi, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, European region - Bulgaria,
Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Region
of the Americas - Dominica, Dominican Republic, Haiti, Mexico, United
States of America.

The primary users of OpenBoxes are pharmacists and depot managers at
hospitals or medical supply warehouses in low-resource settings. These
are often users at a central hub that manage warehousing, forecasting,
and distribution for a network of smaller health facilities.

### Resources

- Website: www.openboxes.com
- Source Code: <https://github.com/openboxes>
- Articles:
  - <https://www.pih.org/article/need-know-openboxes-and-supply-chain>
  - <https://www.pih.org/article/new-distribution-center-software-vastly-modernizes-medical-storage-haiti>
  - <https://digitalsquare.org/blog/2022/8/16/from-touchpoints-to-journeys-putting-end-users-at-the-heart-of-digital-health-innovations>
