### Purpose

#### Conflicts of interest

Conflicts of interest of varying natures or degrees of significance may
arise in the conduct of Digital Square’s operations. A conflict of
interest in and of itself is not wrong and may not be unethical, but
those involved in decision-making processes on behalf of Digital Square
must take appropriate action to ensure disclosure of any actual,
perceived, or potential conflicts of interest. As a result, Digital
Square will be able to properly manage conflicts of interest and thus
mitigate the operational and reputational risks inherent in such
conflicts.

#### Purpose of policy

The purpose of this Conflict of Interest and Recusal Policy (this
“Policy”) is therefore to protect the integrity and reputation of
Digital Square’s decision-making processes, particularly in regard to
the allocation and disbursement of resources, by establishing procedures
to identify, evaluate, and address any actual, perceived, or potential
conflicts that may arise. As a basic principle, such conflicts must be
resolved in favor of Digital Square. Those involved in decision-making
processes on behalf of Digital Square will be expected to abide by the
provisions of this Policy.

## Definitions

### Board Member(s)

Any member of the
<a href="Board" class="wikilink" title="Board">Board</a>.

### Family Member(s)

A Board Member’s grandparents, parents/guardians, spouse/domestic
partner, siblings, children/dependents, and/or grandchildren.

### Conflict of interest

A situation where a Board Member has an actual, perceived, or potential
organizational or financial/personal interest, as defined below, that
may:

- Affect the conduct of his/her duties and responsibilities with respect
  to Digital Square.
- Create the perception that the Board Member is using his/her position
  in Digital Square for organizational or personal financial gain at the
  expense of Digital Square.

### Organizational interest

An organizational interest arises when a Board Member is an officer,
director, trustee, partner, or (negotiating to become) an employee of an
entity that may benefit financially from a decision on which he/she
would vote.

### Financial/personal interest

A Board Member has a financial/personal interest when he/she or any
family member may benefit financially or in any other significant way
from a transaction or other financial arrangement between the Digital
Square initiative and an entity with which the Board Member has:

- An ownership or investment interest.
- A senior leadership or board member position (whether paid or unpaid).
- A direct or indirect compensation arrangement, including through a
  business, investment, or family member, or in the form of substantial
  gifts or favors.
- A potential in securing any of the above.

## Establishing Conflict of interest

Board Members will not use their position of influence to secure any
financial gain for themselves, their family members, or the
organizations with which they are affiliated. There are several
possibilities for determining whether an actual, perceived, or potential
conflict exists:

- A Board Member discloses that he/she has an actual, perceived or
  potential conflict.
- The Chair determines an actual, perceived, or potential conflict
  exists.
- The Board determines an actual, perceived, or potential conflict
  exists.

## Categories of interest

Interests can generally be categorized according to the following types:

- Direct: A direct interest in any Board decision, policy, or contract
  may be established when a Board Member directly benefits from such
  decision, policy, or contract through an organizational or
  personal/financial interest.
- Indirect: An indirect interest in any Board decision, policy, or
  contract may be established when a Board Member indirectly benefits
  from such decision, policy, or contract through an organizational or
  financial/personal interest.

## Duty to disclose

A Board Member must disclose organizational and/or financial/personal
interests and the nature of such interest when he/she becomes aware that
a conflict exists, could be perceived to exist, or is likely to occur. A
new Board Member should disclose preexisting conflicts in writing to the
Chair and Director upon joining the Board. In the case of all other
conflicts, a Board Member should disclose in writing to the Chair and
Director within one week of the Board Memberbecoming aware of the
conflict of interest or before the next Board meeting, whichever comes
first.

## Recusal

### 1

Though Board Members bring their experience and affiliations to bear for
the benefit of Digital Square, they should also recognize their
responsibility to put the interests of Digital Square before other
interests when taking decisions on behalf of Digital Square. Therefore,
participation in and disclosure of any actual, perceived, or potential
conflict of interest relevant to a Board decision should be guided by
the provisions of this Policy, with any such conflict identified and
declared.

### 2

Should an actual, perceived, or potential conflict of interest apply to
the Chair, the same recusal process applies. If an actual, perceived, or
potential conflict of interest arises during the course of the review,
he/she will disclose the conflict, recuse him/herself, and appoint a
temporary Chair to call for a vote to appoint a new Chair.

### 3

It shall be the decision of the Chair, in consultation with the
Director, to determine the scope and level of a conflicted Board
Member’s participation in the discussion and the necessity of recusal
from deliberation, motions, and voting given the type of interest
disclosed. The minutes of the meeting shall reflect the conflicted
Member’s disclosure and whether the conflicted Member participated in
the discussion and/or abstained from voting

## Failure to disclose

### 1

Should any Board Member have reasonable cause to believe that another
Board Member has failed to disclose an actual, perceived, or potential
conflict of interest, he/she shall inform the Chair and the Director.
The Board Member shall have an opportunity to explain the alleged
failure to disclose. The reporting Board Member should have reasonable
grounds for suspecting a violation and must do so in good faith.
Knowingly reporting false or frivolous information is contrary to this
Policy.

### 2

Failure to disclose a conflictor disputes over whether a conflict exists
may be referred to the Board for resolution.

## Digital Square Contacts

digitalsquare@path.org
