With the Global Goods Guidebook, Digital Square is showcasing some of
the emergent and established global goods that have been invested or
deployed as a result of our unique, open approach. The Digital
Investment Principles have described the need for donors to align around
scalable, sustainable, accessible, interoperable, and evidence-based
digital health global goods that meet country priorities. Digital health
global public goods have an important role to play in moving the needle
from a past era of digital health donor funding characterized by pilots
and other proof-of-concept demonstrations to a future guided by
investments in country-led and country-managed digital health strategies
and systems that can be independently operated, expanded, and sustained
by host governments and local partners over time.

The global health community needs to move away from the current practice
of single application solutions to a more strategic approach that acts
holistically with both current country priorities and long-term goals
for health system strengthening. By better coordinating the development
of digital health global goods, such as those presented in this
guidebook, stakeholders involved in digital health can reduce
duplication and ensure that platforms are not only more aligned with
priorities but that they strengthen national systems

This Global Goods guidebook focuses a living document with regular
revisions. The information in this guidebook has been provided by the
global goods themselves and has not been validated by Digital Square for
accuracy.

## Endorsements

The Guidebook has been endorsed by:

- BMGF
- Bayer Foundation
- DIAL
- DPGA
- GIZ
- NORAD
- The ELMA Philanthropies
- UNICEF
- USAID

## Version 4.0

The Global Goods Guidebook Version 4.0 is a compendium of Digital
Square-approved software tools and technologies from the Notice G0
cycle. Produced by Digital Square, the guidebook is a living document
which catalogs existing Digital Square–approved global goods, defines
the product attributes of each global good, and provides personas to
explain how to best leverage the guidebook to provide direction in
making decisions on selecting global goods to support a health project.
Version 4.0 includes several new sections which reflect the current and
evolving needs of the digital health ecosystem: standards and
interoperability, security and data-privacy, and the benefits of using
global goods.

\[<https://static1.squarespace.com/static/59bc3457ccc5c5890fe7cacd/t/64707e0dad973d3c9331dacc/1685093936008/Global+Goods+Guidebook+Version+4.0_FINAL+for+publishing.pdf>\|
Download Global Goods Guidebook V4.0 here.\]

Release Date: May 25, 2023

## Version 3.0

The Global Goods Guidebook showcases 35 emergent and established global
goods that are approved for investment through Digital Square and
additional information on [public goods\| digital public
goods.](https://digitalpublicgoods.net/digital-public-goods/digital) By
better coordinating the development of digital health global goods, such
as those presented in the guidebook, stakeholders involved in digital
health can reduce duplication and ensure that platforms are not only
more aligned with national priorities but that they strengthen health
systems.

\[<https://static1.squarespace.com/static/59bc3457ccc5c5890fe7cacd/t/62a46059642f3b5127550bfe/1654939756182/Global+Goods+Guidebook+V3-Update-10-June-2022.pdf>\|
Download Global Goods Guidebook V3.0 here.\]

Release Date: June 10, 2022

## Version 2.0

This edition focuses on software global goods that are approved for
investments through Digital Square and introduces the concept of
“shelfreadiness” as well as highlights some of the global goods
adaptations to COVID-19.

\[<https://static1.squarespace.com/static/59bc3457ccc5c5890fe7cacd/t/6061f423e9c30f0939b94873/1617032231588/Global+Goods+Guidebook+V2_update+29+Mar+2021.pdf>\|
Download Global Goods Guidebook V2.0 here.\]

Release Date: March 15, 2021

## Version 1.0

In this inaugural edition (version 1.0), we have limited consideration
to global goods that are approved for investments through Digital
Square. Future iterations will be more comprehensive in scope, and the
eligibility criteria for inclusion in the guidebook will be developed in
consultation with the Digital Health & Interoperability Working Group
(DH&I WG) of the Health Data Collaborative. With this guidebook, Digital
Square is showcasing some of the emergent and established global goods
that have been invested or deployed as a result of our unique, open
approach.

## Table Of Contents

The guidebook's table of contents is arranged by the *[World Health
Organization’s Classification of Digital Health Interventions v1.0
system categories](https://apps.who.int/iris/handle/10665/260480).*

This is a high level list of the WHO classifications included in the TOC
of the Global Goods Guidebook v1

- Civil Registration and Vital Statistics • B (Page 16)

`    *Resource : `[*`OpenCRVS`*](https://www.opencrvs.org/)

- Clinical Terminology and Classifications • E (Page 18)

`    *Resource : `[*`Open Concept Lab`*](https://demo.openconceptlab.org/)` `

- Community-Based Information System • F (Pages 20 - 22)

`    *Resource : `[*`CommCare`*](https://www.dimagi.com/commcare/)  
`                `[`Community Health Toolkit`](https://communityhealthtoolkit.org/)

- Data Interchange Interoperability and Accessibility • G (Page 24)

`    *Resource : `[*`OpenHIM`*](http://openhim.org/)

- Electronic Medical Records • H (Page 26 - 30)

`    *Resource : `[*`Bahmni`*](https://www.bahmni.org/)  
`                `[*`OpenMRS`*](https://openmrs.org/)  
`                `[*`OpenSRP`*](https://smartregister.org/)

- Knowledge Management System • Q (Page 32)

`    *Resource : `[*`Digital Health Atlas`*](https://digitalhealthatlas.org/en/-/)

- Health Finance And Insurance Information System Core Role . M (Page
  34)

`    *Resource : `[*`openIMIS`*](https://www.openimis.org/)

- Health Management Information System • N (Page 36)

`    *Resource : `[*`DHIS2`*](https://www.dhis2.org/about)

- Human Resource Information System • O (Page 38)

`    *Resource : `[*`iHRIS`*](https://www.ihris.org/)

- Laboratory and Diagnostics Information System • R (Pages 40 - 42)

`    *Resource : `[*`Child Growth Monitor`*](https://childgrowthmonitor.org/)  
`                `[*`OpenLabConnect`*](https://www.bikalims.org/blog/1st-openlabconnect-release-open-source-instrument-middle-ware)

- Logistics Management Information System • T (Page 44)

`    *Resource : `[*`OpenLMIS`*](https://openlmis.org/)

- Public Health and Disease Surveillance • V (Pages 46 - 48)

`    *Resource : `[*`Reveal`*](https://revealprecision.com/)  
`                `[*`SORMAS`*](https://sormasorg.helmholtz-hzi.de/About_SORMAS.html)

- Shared Health Record and Health Information Repositories • X (Page 50)

`    *Resource : `*`Hearth`*

- Appendix: <a href="Global_Goods_Maturity" class="wikilink"
  title="Global Good Maturity Model"><em>Global Good Maturity
  Model</em></a> (Page 52)
- Appendix: [*OpenHIE*](https://ohie.org/) (Page 53)

<a href=":File:Global_Goods_Guidebook_v1_28.05.2019.pdf"
class="wikilink"
title="Download Global Goods Guidebook V1.0 here.">Download Global Goods
Guidebook V1.0 here.</a>

Release Date: May 28, 2019
