=mHero=
mHero is a two-way, mobile phone based communication system that connects Ministries of Health and health workers. mHero brings together existing health information systems with locally popular communication platforms to facilitate the exchange of important health information. It reduces the barriers that can exist between health workers and their support systems, playing a critical role in ensuring effective and efficient responses, particularly in a crisis. 

===Approach=== 
mHero is a two-way, mobile phone-based communication system that connects ministries of health and health workers. It uses data from existing local health information systems to deliver messages via locally popular communication channels. It reduces the barriers that can exist between health workers and their support systems, playing a critical role in ensuring effective and efficient responses, particularly in a crisis. 
The primary users are Ministry of Health, healthcare workers in facilities, labs, and other sites, and training participants. 

===Implementations=== 
mHero has been deployed in seven countries to date with Democratic Republic of the Congo, Kenya, Liberia, Mali, Uganda in the African region.  

===Resources=== 
*Website:www.mHero.org  
*Source Code: https://github.com/intrahealth/mhero.git 
*Articles:
**https://www.unicef.org/innovation/stories/mhero-health-workers-needs  
**https://fpdigitalsolution.org/case-study/mhero/  
**https://digitalprinciples.org/resource/mhero-and-the-principles-for-digital-development-development-done-right/  
**https://www.intrahealth.org/vital/whats-mheros-secret-giving-health-officials-real-time-information-during-pandemic"