=ODK=
ODK is an open-source platform that helps social impact organizations build powerful offline forms to collect the data they need wherever it is. It is the global standard for offline data collection. 

===Approach=== 
Millions of people use ODK because it helps them do three things easily, reliably, securely, and at scale: 

1. Build powerful forms with photos, GPS locations, skip logic, calculations, external datasets, multiple languages, repeating elements, and more. 
2. Collect data offline with either the mobile app or the web app. Forms and submissions are synced when a connection is found. 
3. Analyze with ease by connecting apps like Excel, Power BI, or R to create live-updating and shareable reports and dashboards. 

ODK is primarily used by social impact organizations that need powerful offline forms. 

===Implementations=== 
In the last 12 months, ODK has been used in every country in the world. For the reporting period, our mobile app (including white-labelled forks) has had ~4M users who have submitted ~190M forms. 

===Resources=== 
*Website: https://getodk.org 
*Source Code:  
**https://github.com/getodk/collect 
**https://github.com/getodk/central 
*Articles:
**[https://forum.getodk.org/t/odk-s-role-in-the-first-malaria-vaccine-approved-by-who/35364 ODK was used to collect clinical data that showed safety and efficacy of the RTS,S malaria vaccine]
**[https://forum.getodk.org/t/odk-and-dhis2-used-in-uganda-to-help-vaccinate-19-5-million-children/33121 ODK was used to help vaccinate 19.5 million children in Uganda against measles-rubella]
**[http://www.emro.who.int/somalia/news/cases-of-covid-19-surge-in-somalia-as-do-response-efforts-for-contact-tracing.html ODK is used by WHO for large-scale COVID-19 surveillance and response]
**[https://www.who.int/standards/classifications/other-classifications/verbal-autopsy-standards-ascertaining-and-attributing-causes-of-death-tool ODK powers the standardized verbal autopsy form to measure global burden of disease] 
**[https://www.africakicksoutwildpolio.com/the-top-five-tech-solutions-that-helped-eradicate-wild-poliovirus-in-the-african-region ODK is the basis for all the tech solutions that helped WHO AFRO eradicate polio from Africa]