=OpenIMIS=
openIMIS is a versatile open source software which supports the administration of health financing and social protection schemes. It is specially designed to manage the complex, high-volume data flows which are required to operate such schemes by seamlessly integrating beneficiary, provider and payer data in a single platform. More than 10 million people in 8 countries benefit from health insurance, employment injury insurance, cash transfer and voucher schemes managed using openIMIS. 

===Approach=== 
The success of social protection schemes depends on highly efficient implementation of multiple, complex business processes. Scheme operators (Health Insurance, Social Protection) in low- and middle-income countries struggle to achieve efficiencies in these schemes when they lack access to appropriate digital technologies. openIMIS aims to solve this problem by providing the social protection institutions with a flexible, open-source solution that they can use to manage their schemes, increase efficiency and help increase the reach of Universal Health Coverage (UHC) and universal social protection (USP) to their beneficiaries. The openIMIS initiative has been working with scheme operators of various scheme types from health insurance, accident insurance, to unconditional cash transfers since 2016. The primary users of openIMIS are Scheme operators (payer), Hospital Administration (provider), and Field staff (facing beneficiaries). 

===Implementations=== 
The openIMIS initiative has been working with scheme operators of various scheme types, from health insurance, accident insurance to unconditional cash transfers, since 2016. With implementations in 8 countries, serving close to 10 million beneficiaries, openIMIS has demonstrated that they understand the needs of the scheme operators and provide a solution catered to that need. 

===Resources=== 
*Website: www.openimis.org 
*Source Code: https://github.com/openimis 
*Articles: 
**https://www.eda.admin.ch/deza/en/home/sdc/aktuell/newsuebersicht/2021/08/openimis-software.html  
**https://health.bmz.de/stories/bangladesh-launches-pioneering-employment-injury-scheme-for-the-garment-sector/  
**https://health.bmz.de/stories/openimis-brings-digital-social-benefits-to-the-gambia/  
**https://health.bmz.de/stories/health-and-social-protections-digital-backbone/  
**https://health.bmz.de/stories/openimis-co-creating-a-global-good/ "