=OpenHexa=
OpenHexa is an open-source data analysis & integration platform for public health projects. It has been built to facilitate the analysis and processing of data (and health data in particular) coming from different sources.
 
===Approach=== 
The primary functionality of OpenHexa is to facilitate the integration of health data coming from multiple sources, such as: HMIS systems such as DHIS2, LMIS software (OpenLMIS / M-Supply), ERP systems (Odoo) and data collections tools (ODK, Kobo, Iaso).  

It allows users to: 
*Explore data coming from a variety of sources in a data catalog 
*Schedule data pipelines for extraction & transformation operations 
*Perform collaborative data analysis in interactive code notebooks 
*Easily connect their data to third-party visualization tools 

Once the relevant data has been identified, OpenHexa allows users to set up, automate and monitor the data integration process. OpenHexa also provides flexible access control capabilities: administrators have the possibility to control who can access a specific data source and what operations can be performed on it. The platform has been designed to be open (easily extensible) and affordable. 

OpenHexa is primarily used by health data professionals such as decision-makers and data specialists in ministries of health, as well as data scientists, data analysts, and academic researchers.  

===Implementations=== 
OpenHexa is used in nine countries in sub-Saharan Africa. The majority of the users today are members of ministries of health at the central level who use OpenHexa to analyze routine results. They are mostly M&E specialists and data managers. In some countries where OpenHexa is deployed, data integrated by OpenHexa is visualized at the health district level (for example, the routine Malaria data in the Democratic Republic of Congo). The use of OpenHexa now extends to international partners such as NGOs and academic research teams, such as UNICEF, the Institute of Tropical Medicine in Antwerp or the Swiss Tropical and Public Health Institute. 

===Resources=== 
*Website: https://www.bluesquarehub.com/openhexa/ 
*Source Code: 
**https://github.com/BLSQ/openhexa 
**https://github.com/BLSQ/openhexa-app 
**https://github.com/BLSQ/openhexa-notebooks 
**https://github.com/BLSQ/openhexa-frontend 
**https://github.com/BLSQ/openhexa-pipelines 
*Articles: 
**https://www.bluesquarehub.com/blog/openhexa-bluesquares-new-data-integration-platform/ 
**https://www.unicef.org/drcongo/media/5296/file/COD-CASS-Impacts-COVID-femmes-filles.pdf 
**https://scholar.google.com/citations?view_op=view_citation&hl=en&user=TYzu2X8AAAAJ&authuser=1&citation_for_view=TYzu2X8AAAAJ:J_g5lzvAfSwC 
**https://scholar.google.com/citations?view_op=view_citation&hl=en&user=TYzu2X8AAAAJ&authuser=1&citation_for_view=TYzu2X8AAAAJ:M05iB0D1s5AC"