This is the Membership Application and Selection Process of the Digital Square [[Peer Review Committee]] (PRC). The [[Peer Review Committee Membership Policy]], [[Conflict of Interest and Recusal Policy]], and Peer Review Committee Membership Application and Selection Process of the Digital Square Peer Review Committee has been approved by the Governing Board. Any substantive changes to the policies require board approval.

=Membership=
All seats on the Peer Review Committee are allocated to individuals who are experts in digital health. Membership is confirmed via membership agreements between the individual member and Digital Square.

=Member Selection Process=
The Digital Square Contacts maintains oversight of the inclusion of new members to the PRC. Digital Square seeks to maintain a balance of expert peers who possess technical and implementation experience in digital health information systems, as well as leaders in advocacy and policy in the digital health space. 

Digital Square may recruit PRC Members to ensure equity, balance, and diversification of the PRC; however, individuals can also apply to join the PRC. Should an individual wish to apply to be a member of the PRC, they must complete a PRC application form, which will be reviewed in full by the Digital Square Contacts. Applicants will be notified within three weeks of completing the form whether they are accepted to be part of the PRC.

For more information about how to join the PRC and to request an application form, please contact Vrunda Rathod at vrathod@path.org.