## Notice F2 Investments

#### [Enhancing the shelf-readiness & scale of the Reveal platform](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/enhancing-shelf-readiness-scale-reveal-platform)

<a href="Reveal" class="wikilink" title="Reveal">Reveal</a> is an
open-source digital global good that enables country governments and
implementing partners to use geospatial data and technology to
efficiently and effectively deliver life-saving intervention campaigns.
Akros aims to enhance the shelf-readiness and ability of Reveal to
effectively scale by a) enabling over-the-air (OTA) updates to automate
software installation, configuration, and routine updates, b) improving
quality assurance (QA) processes and c) strengthening the Reveal
community.

***Funded all work packages***

#### [Improving the CommCare Installation Process using Containers](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/improving-commcare-installation-process-using-containers)

The goal of this project is to decrease the complexity of installing
CommCare on a single server (“monolithic deployment”) so that
independent teams can quickly and easily get started with a deployment
of CommCare and begin collecting point-of-care data, which will be
achieved by containerizing a full deployment of CommCare.

***Funded Work Package 2: Implementation of Monolithic Container \| Work
Package 3: Implement and Test Upgrade Process with New Software Version
\| Work Package 5: Create Instant OpenHIE CHIS Package***

#### [Shelf Readiness of OpenMRS through Capacity Building for Quality Assurance and Compliance](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/shelf-readiness-openmrs-through-capacity-building-quality-assurance)

OpenMRS and the University of Washington aim to advance shelf-readiness
by utilizing the OpenMRS fellowship program to develop a
capacity-building pipeline of highly-skilled, advanced quality assurance
engineers for the OpenMRS Quality Assurance program of rigorous,
comprehensive, proactive, and systematic quality assurance. By bringing
together experienced community members in the QA team and local
in-country engineers, this investment will be used to 1) build a
structured and measurable QA fellowship pipeline for community
sustainability and local country-based capacity and 2) strengthen
OpenMRS product and interoperability quality assurance and compliance.

***Funded Work Package 1: Implementation to Community in the QA
Engineering Pipeline***

#### [Everwell Health Solutions: Shelf readiness to enhance local capacity and uniformity](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/concept-note-everwell-health-solutions-f2-tool-shelf-readiness-enhance-local-capacity-and)

The Everwell Hub is an open-source platform that supports treatment
recovery and program management of healthcare domains such as
Tuberculosis, HIV, COVID, mental health, and beyond. This project seeks
to enhance the Everwell Hub, which not only digitizes a patient's
journey from awareness to recovery but also helps monitor patients'
treatment regimes in terms of diagnosis and adherence. In addition, we
want to develop Everwell Hub as an independent & open-sourced platform
so that it enables more autonomy by users for setting up, managing, and
customizing deployments.

***Funded Work Package 2: Automated deployment setup \| Work Package 5:
Adoptation and Compliance with OpenHIE Standards***

## Notice F1 Investments

#### [Tamanu for COVID-19 digital certificates](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/tamanu-covid-19-digital-certificates)

Tamanu is a fit-for-purpose patient-level electronic medical record
(EMR) designed to address the distinct healthcare challenges of the
Pacific. Our goal is to ensure that patients in the Pacific can travel
and participate in the global economy. Including vaccination
certificates in Tamanu will help us reach this goal. This investment
would go towards developing vaccination certificates (including secure
Visible Digital Seals - VDS) in line with the World Health
Organization’s Digital documentation of COVID-19 certificates:
vaccination status (DDCC: VS): technical specifications and
implementation guidance. In addition, the system will align with HL7
FHIR, a free and open data exchange standard, to ensure that data for
the DDCC: VS is captured in a consistent and interoperable way. In
addition, we will be able to code the data using either the ICAO or
EUDCC standards.

***Funded all work packages***

#### [CommCare for Equitable COVID-19 Vaccine Delivery](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/commcare-equitable-covid-19-vaccine-delivery)

CommCare for equitable COVID-19 vaccine delivery is an open-source
digital solution to track and support every vaccine recipient before,
during, and after vaccination. The template application has been
customized and implemented at scale in Somalia and Jamaica. Through this
project, Dimagi will develop and publish documentation for its COVID-19
vaccine solution on installation and deployment methods, quality
assurance testing, and product information to align with the shelf
readiness framework; further, in recognition of the need for vaccine
certificates will build an integration guide on how to platform can
integrate with eGov’s DIVOC system and develop a means of making
integrations with similar platforms more seamless.

***Funded all work packages***

## Notice F0 Investments

#### [Supporting a FHIR Native Reference Implementation of the ANC Smart Guidelines](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/supporting-fhir-native-reference-implementation-anc-smart-guidelines)

The goal of the WHO SMART Guidelines is to help accelerate and
systematize the consistent application of WHO-recommended guidelines for
digital health applications. To help achieve this bold vision, we
believe the next generation of digital health applications that are FHIR
native is needed. This project seeks to create a 100% FHIR native
reference application of the WHO Digital Adaption Kit (DAK) for
Antenatal Care (ANC). This will allow the application to be configured
directly with L3 guidelines represented as FHIR resources in the ANC DAK
FHIR Implementation Guide. We will develop this using OpenSRP FHIR Core
built on top of Google’s Android FHIR SDK. The project will be led by
Ona, working in close collaboration with the Summit Institute for
Development (SID) in Indonesia.

***Funded all work packages***

#### [DAK-based OpenMRS 3 ANC Package](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/dak-based-openmrs-3x-anc-package)

OpenMRS aims to improve patient care by offering quality, shelf-ready
solutions that provide healthcare workers with a better user experience
and are easy for implementers to reuse and deploy. This project seeks to
create a standards-based OpenMRS Antenatal Care (ANC) MVP package using
new OpenMRS frontend technology based on the ANC DAK. OpenMRS Inc. will
work with Academic Model Providing Access to Healthcare (AMPATH), Mekom
Solutions, and Partners In Health (PIH) to realize this project. This
consortium will (a) adapt the ANC DAK for OpenMRS end-users through a
specifications analysis and user experience assessment, (b) create a
base O3 ANC package incorporating the ANC DAK’s core data dictionary,
functional, and non-functional requirements,(c) extend the O3 ANC
package to include the ANC DAK’s decision support component, and (d)
incorporate ANC DAK-based program indicators and reporting into the ANC
package.

***Funded all work packages***

## Notice E1 Investments

#### [SanteMPI Client Registry](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/sant%C3%A9mpi-client-registry)

This project seeks to improve several key areas of SantéMPI, a robust
and proven online/offline capable Client Registry (CR) solution with a
rich global history, to strengthen the ability of Low and Middle Income
Countries (LMIC) to adopt, sustain, evolve and scale this technology as
a global good by: improving installation and configuration processes
including localization, enhancing tooling for end-users to more easily
customize deployments, upgrading standards support from FHIR R3 to R4,
improving operational support through analytics and expanding community
documentation. Our organization and partners will contribute to
achieving these goals by leveraging and applying decades of deep
expertise and experience in open source digital health software
including: software innovation, development, large-scale implementation,
support and capacity building; development and use of open standards
such as FHIR, IHE and OpenHIE; along with our in-depth experience
developing and implementing the original MEDIC CR solution and evolving
it into the next generation SantéMPI CR.

***Funded all work packages***

## Notice E0 Investments

#### [Advancing Instant OpenHIE](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/advancing-instant-openhie)

This project builds on the initial phase of the Instant OpenHIE project
which aims to reduce the costs and skills required for software
developers to rapidly deploy an OpenHIE architecture for quicker initial
solution testing and a starting point for faster production
implementation and customization. Instant OpenHIE provides a simple way
for technical persons to install and see a complex system working
against a real-world use case, allowing technical persons to illustrate
how interoperability can work to solve health challenges and demonstrate
how an interoperability architecture could be created using open-source
tools and standards. This phase will focus on advancing the community
and expanding to include an additional clinical use case leveraging the
HL7 FHIR standard.

***Funded all work packages***

#### [Advancing OpenELIS Global Shelf-Readiness through Improved Quality Assurance](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/advancing-openelis-global-shelf-readiness-through-improved-quality-assurance)

OpenELIS Global aims to improve its Shelf-Readiness through a transition
from a manual software release testing model to a robust, comprehensive,
and systematic automated testing process that will improve efficiency
and reliability, reduce maintenance costs for the software, and
facilitate re-use of OpenELIS Global code by community members. This
investment will result in: adoption of the OpenHIE testing framework and
tooling for automated testing of OpenELIS; collaboration with the
OpenHIE Laboratory Information Systems Community of Practice (LIS COP)
to establish re-usable LIS interoperability test cases; and
dissemination of LIS/LIMS software testing protocols, guidance, and
learning resources which can be adapted by other global goods
communities to improve software testing practices.

***Funded Work Package 1: Implement an Automated Test Portfolio for
OpenELIS Global \| Work Package 2: Build a Portfolio of Generalized LIS
Test Cases***

#### [Improving the Automated Testing, Interoperability, and Privacy of the Open Smart Register Platform (OpenSRP)](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/improving-automated-testing-interoperability-and-privacy-open-smart-register-platform)

The goal of this project is to improve the automated testing,
interoperability, and privacy of the Open Smart Register Platform
(OpenSRP) as a point-of-service application in alignment with the
OpenHIE architecture. The goal of this project is to improve test
automation, support mobile Care Services Discovery (mCSD), and mask
personally identifiable information.

***Funded Work Package 1: Improving QA by adding an automated testing
framework and improving modular test coverage to 80% \| Work Package 2:
Establishing OpenHIE interoperability by improving mobile Care Services
Discovery (mCSD) support***

#### [OpenBoxes Shelf Readiness Project](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/openboxes-shelf-readiness-project)

OpenBoxes is an open source logistics management information system
designed to meet the supply-chain management demands of public health
systems. The system is used to manage supplies and medications for
healthcare facilities and disaster relief efforts. A major gap
identified in the shelf-readiness of OpenBoxes is user-friendly
deployment and configuration of the software. Partners In Health (PIH)
proposes to leverage its decade of experience with OpenBoxes
implementation, development, and project management to lead the
OpenBoxes Shelf Readiness Project. The goal of this project is to create
a user-friendly installation and setup package that is available online
and makes implementation independently manageable by a non-technical
audience so that the software is more easily deployable by users who
need it.

***Funded all work packages***

#### [OpenFn as a FOSS microservice: click-to-configure, InstantHIE compatible, supported by OpenFn.org](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/openfn-foss-microservice-click-configure-instant-openhie-compatible-supported-openfnorg)

OpneFN is a rapildy deployable intagration service that has served in
supporting point to point data exchange. In this exciting project OpenFN
will be simplifying setup and expanding access to our open-source tools
and deployment strategies. Leveraging the experience of a range of data
integration projects OpenFN will be strengthening some of the core
functionality of the solution and open source key aspects which will
allow implementers to deploy configured interactions locally and or port
from the cloud offering. The project will work to integratate and align
with the Instant OpenHIE project.

***Funded Work Package 1: Instant OpenHIE Compliance \| Work Package 2:
Installation and Deployment \| Work Package 3: Enhanced installation
support \| Work Package 4: Product documentation for open source
software \| Work Package 5: Development & Convening of Open Source
Steering Committee \| Work Package 6: Advanced Community Support***

#### [openIMIS Shelf Readiness](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/openimis-shelf-readiness)

The openIMIS solution continues to be an exciting choice for health
insurace solutions for low resource settings, with communities growing
and additional training and developments happening monthly. Building on
the ongoing investments by groups such as GIZ and the technical
developments by the community this next phase builds on the previous
works funded under Notice C and D by Digital Square. The project will
expand on the FHIR module and strengthen the deployment approach to
align as part of Instant OpenHIE.

***Funded Work Package 1: openIMIS FHIR Module***

#### [OpenMRS Quality Assurance for Interoperability](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/openmrs-quality-assurance-interoperability)

OpenMRS aims to advance our shelf- readiness by producing high-quality
interoperable software and increasing trust in our system through
rigorous, comprehensive, systematic quality assurance. By bringing
together experienced community members and collaborating with other
global goods communities, this investment will be used to 1) extend
OpenMRS automated test portfolio, 2) address QA for OpenMRS
interoperability testing, and 3) strengthen the adoption of the improved
QA for community-wide utilization and conduct dissemination of a QA
model to the broader global goods community.

***Funded all work packages***

#### [Reveal to Guide Precision Health: from demand to shelf readiness](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/reveal-guide-precision-health-demand-shelf-readiness)

Reveal is a “young” but widely implemented global good that provides
spatial targets and tools to improve quality of field-service delivery.
The potential applications for Reveal are vast - from ensuring
vaccinations reach the last mile, to supporting delivery of mass drug
administration - but the packaging and configurability level of the tool
is immature, which bottlenecks adding technical use-cases, geographic
context, and partners.

***Funded all work packages***

#### [Shelf-Ready Content Management Using OCL for OpenMRS](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/shelf-ready-content-management-using-ocl-openmrs)

OpenMRS believes shelf-ready, interoperable software means providing
users with an easily configurable tool for managing terminologies and
metadata that is also required by OpenMRS’ role in Instant OpenHIE,
either as a Shared Health Record or as a Point-of-Service system. By
bringing together implementers, community members, and representatives
from Open Concept Lab (OCL) and other global goods, this investment will
be used to develop an OCL for OpenMRS MVP that addresses priority use
cases, including those that simplify the workflows for creating
collections that use standard concepts and exporting these collections
to OpenMRS instances that are part of a small or large scale deployment.

***Funded all work packages***

#### [Tamanu: Electronic Medical Record](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/tamanu-electronic-medical-record)

Our goal is to improve healthcare in Pacific Islands through the
implementation of Tamanu, our free, open-source, patient-level
electronic medical record (EMR) built for the uniquely remote settings
across the region, with an offline-first, sync- enabled design across
both desktop and mobile. Beyond Essential Systems (BES) is well placed
to achieve this goal, as we have in-depth, contextually appropriate
experience in delivering successful, transformative digital projects in
ten countries across the Asia Pacific Region, with partners including
the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the New Zealand
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, WHO, UNFPA and the Bill and
Melinda Gates Foundation.

***Funded Work Package 1: Easy Installation and Deployment \| Work
Package 2: Thorough API Documentation***

## Notice D1 Investments

#### [Building the openIMIS community of developers for the next phase of growth](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/building-openimis-community-developers-next-phase-growth)

The goal of this project is to strengthen and grow the developers
community for openIMIS. In line with the open source vision for the
tool, Bluesquare is looking to support current and new partners to
continue developing the new platform in line with the established
architecture.

***Funded Work Package 1: Migration of the Beneficiary Enrollment
Workflow to the modular platform with minor revisions***

#### [Claim categorization using Artificial Intelligence: a proof of concept](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/claim-categorization-using-artificial-intelligence-proof-concept)

The goal of this project is to develop an automatic claims
categorization module for openIMIS based on state-of-the-art Artificial
Intelligence (AI) algorithms, standards, and methodologies which will
drastically reduce the manpower, resources and time required to review a
reimbursement claim. As a contribution towards achieving Universal
Health Coverage, the Swiss Tropical and Public Health Institute (Swiss
TPH) designed and developed the health insurance software openIMIS.
Other partners joined later such as the IT firm SolDevelo for specific
work areas, thus bringing together state of the art Public Health and
Software development expertise.

***Funded all work packages***

#### [Support for Formal Sector schemes and Configurable Claims Workflow in openIMIS](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/support-formal-sector-schemes-and-configurable-claims-workflow-openimis)

The goal of this project is to enable the coverage and management of
health insurance schemes in the Formal Sector (for people with regular
wages and normal work hours), further improving the claim review process
by establishing a configurable claim workflow engine and building the
community by integrating the users’ organizations.

***Funded Work Package 1***

#### [Formal Sector Registration and Payment-Integration](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/formal-sector-registration-and-payment-integration)

The goal of the Support for Health Insurance Schemes in the Formal
Sector is to expand the scope of the insurance members covered from
informal sector into the formal sector; which includes employers, Sacco
and other organized groupings. The process is best combined with the
Payment workflow to ensure linkages to an accounting system and mobile
payment gateways.

In that respect, the two processes combined drive a better user
experience for the informal and formal sector signups and payment for
the insurance services, reducing paperwork filled by the members and
agents and hamering the Turn Around Timelines (TAT) for the issuance of
the policy details to the member (to be made electronic and near
real-time).

***Funded all work packages***

## Notice D Investments

#### [Define Once, Run Anywhere: Portable Indicator Reporting for Multiple Global Goods Consortium](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/define-once-run-anywhere-portable-indicator-reporting-multiple-global-goods)

The consortium will enable multiple Global Goods point of service (PoS)
systems, including DHIS2 Tracker, OpenMRS, and OpenLMIS to quickly
produce portable, standards-defined indicators based on transactional
data. This will be done by strengthening the HAPI FHIR Server ecosystem,
the most popular FHIR server in the world, and the FHIR store and API
for multiple Global Goods.

***Funded Work Package 1***

#### [mADX on FHIR on Android Consortium](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/madx-fhir-android)

Most mobile health reporting is generated server side or in a HMIS. Our
goal is to provide a standardized way for health apps to make real-time
reports accessible to health workers offline for better decision making.
We will create a set of open source libraries, expanding HAPI FHIR and
CQL tools, to enable Android based apps to quickly generate health
reports offline using a standards based approach defined in the mADX
Profile.

***Funded Work Package 1: MVP Android Library Development***

#### [Towards an Integrated HIE Approach to Patient-Level Indicator Reporting Consortium](https://applications.digitalsquare.io/content/towards-integrated-hie-approach-patient-level-indicator-reporting)

To support with an integrated approach to patient level monitoring, we
propose the use of a health information exchange that supports
onboarding of multiple digital health systems through HL7 FHIR-based
interfaces, providing a common way to connect and register data to a
longitudinal client record, on which indicator calculations are
performed.

***Funded Work Package 1: OCL Support \| Work Package 2: OpenMRS \| Work
Package 4: Bahmni Support***

## Notice C0 Investments

#### [OpenLMIS: advancing a collaborative, open, and growing community](https://proposals.digitalsquare.io/85)

OpenLMIS is a logistics management information system used to track and
manage data for health commodities moving and being used across health
systems. This proposal seeks support for community-requested feature
development and provide ongoing releases.

#### [Strengthening the OpenMRS implementer ecosystem through community, quality assurance, education, and partnership](https://proposals.digitalsquare.io/101)

OpenMRS is an open source, integrated electronic medical records
platform aimed at resource-constrained settings. This proposal seeks to
strengthen OpenMRS by gaining insight into the impact of OpenMRS on
country health systems by better understanding this growing ecosystem of
OpenMRS implementers and the 3,000+ implementations of the OpenMRS
system.

#### [Integration of the OpenELIS open-source laboratory information system with leading clinical and logistics information systems](https://proposals.digitalsquare.io/91)

OpenELIS is an open-source electronic laboratory information system
software used to track patient testing, diagnosis, and results
communication. This proposal will integrate OpenELIS with OpenMRS,
Bahmni and OpenLMIS using direct bridges and health information
exchange.

#### [Zero to mHero: a packaged workflow for technologists](https://proposals.digitalsquare.io/87)

mHero is a two-way, mobile phone-based communication system that
connects ministries of health and health workers. This proposal is to
make mHero easier to launch, test, and deploy by developing a
standardized and streamlined containerization, orchestration, and
configuration of mHero, using Docker or a similar technology.

#### [An Instant OpenHIE](https://proposals.digitalsquare.io/71)

An Instant OpenHIE is a preconfigured version of the OpenHIE
architecture and reference technologies optimized for low- and
middle-income countries workflows. This proposal is to fund time to
invest in installation options and rapid configuration scripts and in
creating needed mediators to meet the project needs.

#### [DHIS2 utility suite](https://proposals.digitalsquare.io/83)

DHIS2 is a flexible, open-source health information system that allows
users to collect, manage, and visualize data. This proposal is to
fortify DHIS2 with a suite of tools and utilities that will provide more
efficient administration and configuration, integration with other data
collection platforms, and the ability to perform more advanced analytics
through connectivity with more advanced business intelligence tools.

## Notice C1 Investments

#### [DHIS2 as an analytics, reporting, and visualization solution for openIMIS](https://proposals.digitalsquare.io/69)

DHIS2 is a flexible, open-source health information system that allows
users to collect, manage, and visualize data. openIMIS is an open-source
insurance management information system to provide a comprehensive
system linking patient, provider, and payer data. This proposal will
develop the openIMIS analytics solution using DHIS2 as the core and
primary platform.

#### [Develop a claim submission, enrollment, and enrollment verification module with a clinical point of service application using the relevant HL7 FHIR standards, openIMIS, and OpenMRS](https://proposals.digitalsquare.io/55)

openIMIS is an open-source insurance management information system to
provide a comprehensive system linking patient, provider, and payer
data. OpenMRS is an open-source, integrated electronic medical records
platform (EMR) aimed at resource-constrained settings where structured
patient record keeping systems (specifically, electronic medical record
systems) can improve health outcomes. This proposal will build the
working integration between openIMIS and OpenMRS to develop claim
submission, enrollment, and enrollment verification module with a
clinical point of service application using the relevant HL7 FHIR
standards.

#### [Integrating openIMIS with Bahmni: a Nepal-based proof-of-concept project](https://proposals.digitalsquare.io/89)

Facility-based EHR, NepalEHR, is Nepal's national EMR system and is
built on the OpenMRS distribution with Bahmni, with embedded protocols
and the ability to track patient, supply, laboratory, radiology, and
pharmacy data. This proposal is to integrate openIMIS with Bahmni
through a proof-of-concept claim submission module. The development of
this solution will make openIMIS interoperable with national health
information architectures in Nepal.

## Notice B Investments

#### [Strengthening the Open Civil Registration and Vital Statistics (OpenCRVS) System](https://open-proposals.ucsf.edu/digital-square/notice-b/proposal/14327/)

Open Civil Registration and Vital Statistics (OpenCRVS) is an open
source system supporting the digitization of common processes for civil
registration and vital statistics (CRVS), particularly those found in
low resource countries. OpenCRVS is a partnership between Plan
International and Jembi Health Systems with a number of other
collaborators. To date, the project has documented requirements and
business processes in a number of countries in Africa and Asia and
developed a prototype application. This proposal will supplement other
funding streams and allow for the expansion of the software capabilities
of the OpenCRVS project.

#### [Strengthening and Expanding the Open Health Information Mediator (OpenHIM)](https://open-proposals.ucsf.edu/digital-square/notice-b/proposal/14328/)

The Open Health information Mediator (OpenHIM) provides an
interoperability solution that makes it as easy as possible to connect
systems and exchange relevant data, whilst ensuring security and
privacy. The OpenHIM is a an existing open source middleware used to
enable interoperability between component health information systems,
either individually or as part of a health information exchange (HIE).
It is currently one of the reference technologies for the
interoperability layer of the Open Health Information Exchange (OpenHIE)
community project.

<figure>
<img src="OpenHIM_MM.PNG" title="OpenHIM_MM.PNG" />
<figcaption>OpenHIM_MM.PNG</figcaption>
</figure>

#### [DHIS2 Community of Practice](https://open-proposals.ucsf.edu/digital-square/notice-b/proposal/14297/)

DHIS2 is the national scale health management information system (HMIS)
across 55 countries and Indian states, and scaling up in an additional
33. Beyond the principal application of DHIS2 as an HMIS, we see DHIS2
being applied as national WASH, logistics, agriculture, land tenure,
community health, and education information systems. Additionally, DHIS2
is now being used as the central information system for several
multinational donor databases and thousands of NGO projects. The
University of Oslo aims to minimize the barriers to DHIS2 adoption and
full utilization.

<figure>
<img src="DHIS2_MM.PNG" title="DHIS2_MM.PNG" />
<figcaption>DHIS2_MM.PNG</figcaption>
</figure>

#### [Illuminate Data with a DHIS2 Business Intelligence Connector](https://open-proposals.ucsf.edu/digital-square/notice-b/proposal/14366/)

Population Services International (PSI) would like to partner with
technology firm BAO Systems and the University of Oslo (UiO) to develop
a connector between Power BI, Microsoft's suite of business analytic
tools, and DHIS2. The connector will enable non-technical users to
easily share data between DHIS2 and Power BI in order to visualize and
compare vital information from multiple data sources. Power BI allows
health program managers to affordably and quickly generate dynamic
infographics that better communicate data, thereby informing health
program strategy and improving health outcomes.

#### [OpenMRS Sync 2.0 Module Development, Implementations and Maintenance](https://open-proposals.ucsf.edu/digital-square/notice-b/proposal/14308/)

This proposal is about building a new Sync 2.0 module that will be a
replacement for the OpenMRS legacy Sync module. The new module will be
based on Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR), a flexible
next generation standards framework created by HL7, and atom feeds as a
communication channel between different nodes. This new solution will be
secure, reliable and provide OpenMRS a completely new level of
interoperability. After implementing FHIR it will be possible to
synchronize data between OpenMRS and other systems, that implement the
FHIR specification.

#### [Packaging OpenSRP for Scale and Community-Driven National Adoption](https://open-proposals.ucsf.edu/digital-square/notice-b/proposal/14359/)

OpenSRP (Open Smart Register Platform) is an open-source mobile health
platform to empower frontline health workers and simultaneously provide
program managers and policy makers with current data for decision and
policy-making. A committed community of technology, research and
implementation partners has evolved the software to a point of early
maturity characterized by multiple deployments, high performing
technology at scale, and emerging documentation around specific use
cases for RMNCAH, TB, HIV, Malaria and Early Childhood Development.

#### [Global Healthsites Mapping Project: Building a Curated Open Data Commons of Facility Data with OpenStreetMap](https://open-proposals.ucsf.edu/digital-square/notice-b/proposal/14307/)

The Global Healthsites Mapping Project is building a global commons of
health facility data by making OpenStreetMap useful to the medical
community and humanitarian sector. This open data approach invites
organizations to share health facility data and collaborate to establish
an accessible global baseline of health facility data. Understanding the
health capacity of a region is a vital asset in times of emergency and
for day to day operational work in the health sector. Maintaining a high
quality, global Healthsites dataset cannot be done in isolation. Over
the past few years we established partnerships with The MissingMaps,
CartONG, The International Committee of the Red Cross, MÃ©decins Sans
FrontiÃ¨res The International Hospital Federation, The Humanitarian
OpenStreetMap Team, Kartoza and others to inform both the system design
and provide data for the platform.

#### [Building an Open Source LIS Technologies Community of Practice](https://open-proposals.ucsf.edu/digital-square/notice-b/proposal/14378/)

Our team aims to support the building of a community of practice to
serve as an organizational home for the open source laboratory
information systems, OpenELIS Global and BLIS, and the independent open
source laboratory instrument interface software, OpenLabConnect. In
addition, the team aims to support building out of the laboratory
sub-community of practice under the OpenHIE community to develop the
workflows, transactions, technologies, and supporting materials for
integrating laboratory information systems into the larger
facility-level and upper-level eHealth ecosystems using the OpenHIE
design pattern and technologies.

#### [OpenLMIS Advocacy and Community Engagement](https://open-proposals.ucsf.edu/digital-square/notice-b/proposal/14296/)

OpenLMIS is an open source electronic logistics management information
system (LMIS) that has been designated a Global Good by the Digital
Square initiative and is supported by a community of health, technical,
and financing partners working collaboratively to advance health
logistics data management globally. The primary purpose of this proposal
is to request support for advocacy activities for the Initiative.

#### [Expanding the Bahmni Hospital System as a FOSS Project](https://open-proposals.ucsf.edu/digital-square/notice-b/proposal/14385/)

Bahmni is an easy to use, complete, open source Hospital Information
System (HIS) and Electronic Medical Record (EMR) that has been built in
the Global South to meet the needs of low resource environments. Bahmni
is a distribution of the OpenMRS medical record platform, with a user
interface built from the ground up. It also supports Odoo (formerly
OpenERP), OpenELIS, and dcm4chee, providing an integrated robust
solution that manages patient information in a flexible fashion through
the care cycle, including registration, various points-of-care,
investigations, lab orders and results management, PACS and billing.

## Notice A Investments

#### Bahmni: Transition

In collaboration with [DIAL](https://digitalimpactalliance.org/),
Digital Square is supporting the evolution the
[Bahmni](https://www.bahmni.org/) governance by creating a new Bahmni
Coalition and giving it full ownership over the Bahmni product and
initiative, transforming Bahmni from being a
[ThoughtWorks](https://www.thoughtworks.com/)-owned-and-operated project
to a collaborative open-source one hosted through [OpenMRS
Inc](https://wiki.openmrs.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=37946653). To
speed up and smooth this transition, Digital Square and DIAL are
supporting the following activities:

- Collaborative development work on community-prioritized product
  evolution
- Set-up of processes and tooling for FOSS development
- Creation of a Development Team Reference Manual
- Development of Standard Processes for Subcontracting
- Transitioning of Bahmni IP from ThoughtWorks to the coalition

#### Digital Health Atlas: Core Development and Implementation Support

In collaboration with the WHO, we are supporting an upgrade of the
existing [Digital Health Atlas](https://digitalhealthatlas.org/en/-/) to
provide country portals and country requested functionality. The Digital
Health Atlas is a web-based based technology registration and assessment
system that enables governments, technologists, and implementers, as
well as donors, to manage information about existing and new digital
health deployments. It supports cataloging related to scale,
functionality, data capture and use, interoperability and standards, as
well as use-cases and geographical scope of deployment. Collaborative
functional requirements gathering with intended users of the
registration system in the West African region will guide the specific
functionality of the system and ensure usability, stakeholder relevance,
and uptake. Support will be provided to Ebola affected countries. Learn
more about the Digital Health Atlas
[here.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=97wIGZ_YdeM&ab_channel=DigitalHealthAtlasbyWHO)

#### eIDSR: Core Development

[Jembi Health Systems](https://www.jembi.org/), [Vecna
Cares](https://www.vecnacares.org/), [Dimagi](https://www.dimagi.com/)
and [Fio](http://fio.com/) are developing an integrated disease
surveillance solution that leverages the value of each of their
technological innovations and our community of practice in
interoperability. At the core, the solution would see the enabling of
CommCare and Fionet to leverage published health standards
([OpenHIE](https://ohie.org/), [HL7
FHIR](http://wiki.hl7.org/index.php?title=FHIR)) to communicate with a
Health Information Exchange through the [OpenHIM](http://openhim.org/)
and submit and query patient level data. The system would also show the
ability to trigger alerts based on submitted data and create the
opportunity to have patient level data feed a national data warehouse
(such as [DHIS2](https://www.dhis2.org/)) and leverage
[mHero](http://www.mhero.org) for communication. This system would ease
the burden on community health workers, clinicians, laboratory
technicians, and health center admin in under-resourced areas through a
more seamless connection between and visibility of data collection
points, diagnostics, and workflow support. Government bodies and
implementing partners would have better visibility into the data
collection and management through this cohesive integrated approach to
infectious disease data management. Most importantly, this sustainable
solution would provide beneficiaries in critical areas a faster, more
reliable connection to critical care and diagnostics for the disease
burden pertinent to their district, region, or country.

#### Global Open Facility Registry (GOFR): Core Development and Implementation

A consortium comprising [eHealth
Africa](https://www.ehealthafrica.org/),
[IntraHealth](https://www.intrahealth.org/),
[JSI](http://www.jsi.com/JSIInternet/), and [RTI](https://www.rti.org/)
are working on the development of curation tools for managing multiple
list of health facilities in order to support ministries of health
efforts to develop and maintain a Master Facility List and link with
existing public sources of health facility data. Country specific
support for implementation of the GOFR tools is being provided to
Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone.

#### iHRIS Foundation: Core Development and Community Support

The [iHRIS Foundation](https://www.ihris.org/2016/12/ihrisfoundation/),
with [IntraHealth](https://www.intrahealth.org/) as secretariat, will
focus the development of features and functions to respond to requests
from the iHRIS community, including ministries of health and health
professional associations; as well as prepare the platform for broader
use in new domains. Freed from the strict structure of projects and
dependency on piecemeal funding, the iHRIS community, led by the
Foundation, will be able to address longstanding issues that affect all
users and offer support for new architectures to optimize the
functionality and power of iHRIS. New tools, documentation, and
capabilities for iHRIS will make it easier to use, more powerful, and
more interoperable with the various health information ecosystems
utilized by the global community. Improved and more readily available
training and learning materials will increase the number of users and
their capacity for making full use of the software. These improvements
to iHRIS will provide the men and women who make decisions regarding
human resources in the health sector with the data they need to better
understand how their health systems are working, where their needs are
greatest, and how to best meet those needs.

<figure>
<img src="IHRIS_MM.PNG" title="IHRIS_MM.PNG" />
<figcaption>IHRIS_MM.PNG</figcaption>
</figure>

#### Open Data Kit 2 (ODK2): Core Development and Transition

Global development organizations, and country-based programs
increasingly rely on mobile data collection and management tools for a
wide range of activities relating to the measurement, evaluation, and
delivery of health programs. The collection and use of accurate and
timely data is essential to organizations, their intended beneficiaries,
and donors. [ODK 2.0](https://opendatakit.org/use/2_0_tools/), from
[University of Washington](https://www.cs.washington.edu/), builds on
the experience of [ODK
1.0.](http://opendatakit-dev.cs.washington.edu/1_0_tools) ODK 2.0 has
been under development for a number of years and needs to be
transitioned to a multi-stakeholder open source community as part of
support for more complex mobile data collection scenarios:

- Data management needs are increasing as mobile data collection moves
  away from collecting one-time survey data to collecting longitudinal
  data.
- As tools extend to more sophisticated applications, a deployment
  architect must be able to perform the necessary customizations to
  locality and over time. Â·
- With a growing ecosystem of global good software tools, it is
  important to have seamless configuration, interoperability and
  linkages between tools
  - Network infrastructure and connectivity continue to pose significant
    challenges to mobile data collection, so it is essential that tools
    function in environments with intermittent mobile connectivity.

#### OpenLMIS: Core Development and Community Support

A consortium comprising [VillageReach](http://www.villagereach.org/),
[JSI](http://www.jsi.com/) and [Ona](https://ona.io/home/) will develop
the features identified during the recent gap analysis work. The
consortium seeks to provide the following outcomes:

- Provide feature parity between TZM eLMIS and OpenLMISv3 to the
  greatest degree possible within funding limits, thereby enabling a
  cost-effective and efficient path for existing eLMIS countries to
  upgrade to v3.x
- Add compelling new features and enhancements to existing and new
  modules using the improved architecture for new country adoption
- Grow the OpenLMIS community by developing Africa-based resources that
  can eventually serve as software development and implementation
  partners, regional support centers and code schools.
- Support the OpenLMIS community by continuing to support the Core team
  providing fundamental support to the community and facilitate the
  governance, product and technical committees.

<figure>
<img src="OpenLMIS_MM.png" title="OpenLMIS_MM.png" />
<figcaption>OpenLMIS_MM.png</figcaption>
</figure>

## Pre-Notice Investments

### OpenLMIS: Gap Analysis

In the spring of 2017, Digital Square, in collaboration with
[VillageReach](http://www.villagereach.org/), supported
[JSI](http://www.jsi.com/) to conduct a gap analysis between the
functionality present in eLMIS and that in [OpenLMIS
3.x](http://openlmis.org/) to ensure that countries wishing to adopt
OpenLMIS 3.x have an upgrade path. Identified [functional
gaps](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1yl6wBGeFUD04eGY0e4Ugu7hYk1DrvqdqRO5754G8Tpc/edit#gid=0)
were prioritized based on country needs.

## List of Global Goods Projects that are Approved - Contingent on Funding

### Child Growth Monitor

- **Child Growth Monitor - A game-changing app to detect malnutrition:**
  This investment will go towards establishing an expanded team;
  continual IT development; field tests in two additional contexts
  (2019-02) in order to adapt CGM for children of other ethnicities;
  integrating the CGM in nutrition studies (beginning 2019-03);
  preparing three pilot projects for managing acute undernutrition (by
  2019-03); pilot projects (beginning 2019-04) with approximately
  100,000 children; integrating CGM: (a) at ACF India; (b) with the
  state actor Integrated -Child -Development Services (ICDS) in the
  Indian Madhya Pradesh; (c) with the nutrition programme in refugee
  camps with regard to emergency aid. *Amount of unfunded activities:
  \$250,000*

### HEARTH

- **Strengthening and Expanding HEARTH open source tool and community:**
  This investment will go towards further developing HEARTH, improved
  accessibility to the growing number of implementers in Africa and
  other low-resource countries, and grow the community of practice to
  ensure that HEARTH effectively addresses real world challenges and is
  more sustainable in the long term. *Amount of unfunded activities:
  \$359,798*

### Logistimo

- **Scaling health worker capacity at the last mile of low-resource
  supply chains through self-learning and community support on mobile
  phones:** Logistimo is an open-source supply chain management platform
  with a hosted service that enables optimal management of inventory and
  last-mile delivery in low-resource supply chains by leveraging mobile
  phones and cloud computing. Proposal to enable a scalable model for
  ongoing capacity development of last-mile workers using a combination
  of an easy-to-use self-serve, e-learning service with video content
  that enables self-learning and capacity assessments plus community
  interactions with peer coworkers, supervisors, or experts through an
  online group accessible within their mobile applications, which offers
  a sustained high-touch support. Such a group enables one to ask or
  answer questions online, as well as share best practices. *Amount of
  unfunded activities: \$227,740*

### Lorem Ipsum for Digital Health

- **Lorem Ipsum for Digital Health:** Lorem Ipsum is fictional data
  built of anonymized data that is realistic but not real, which would
  be used to develop dashboards and machine learning. Lorem Ipsum for
  Digital Health will create a harmonized synthetic data generator for
  malaria or HIV/AIDS that can be used by software developers,
  policymakers, and researchers to improve the functionality and data
  analysis capabilities of DHIS 2, OpenMRS, iHRIS, and related services
  like OpenInfoMan, Global Open Facility Registry, and more. *Amount of
  unfunded activities: \$415,495*

### Medic Mobile

- **Medic Mobile - Building a Community of Practice:** This investment
  would contribute to improving documentation for configuring and
  supporting deployments of the Medic Mobile toolkit and creating a
  community of practice. *Amount of unfunded activities: \$156,133*

### Mobile WACh

- **Mobile WACh: Communication Empowering Patients and Health Care
  Workers:** This investment will go towards creating additional
  features to enable scaled deployments, funding in-country capacity,
  and creating an organizational home for the tool. *Amount of unfunded
  activities: \$582,610*

### mPowering Frontline Health Worker Initiative

- **Supporting the Establishment of an Organizational Home for the
  mPowering Frontline Health Workers Initiative:** This investment will
  provide an organizational home for the secretariat of the project to
  further move the project along and keep it organized. *Amount of
  unfunded activities: \$200,000*

### Reveal

- **Spatial Decision Support Tool for mapping, microplanning delivery of
  health interventions (Reveal):** This investment will go towards
  preparing the source code for easy adaptation by users, developing the
  online portal/entry point for users, and developing documentation for
  implementers. *Amount of unfunded activities: \$190,655*

### OpenCHS

- **Building an Open Child Helpline System (OpenCHS) Community of
  Practice:** The Child Helpline System is an open-source case
  management system that supports reporting and case management of abuse
  cases of children through various channels of communication including
  calls, SMS, and CHAT. Proposal to build an OpenCHS Community of
  Practice to coordinate and consolidate contributions and efforts from
  various partners through a virtual space for engagement, knowledge
  sharing, and learning amongst OpenCHS implementers, developers and
  users. *Amount of unfunded activities: \$213,410*

### OpenELIS

- **OpenELIS community building through documentation and participation
  within LIS community of practice:** OpenELIS is an open-source
  electronic laboratory information system software, used to track
  patient testing, diagnosis, and results communication. Proposal
  activities will contribute to improved availability of viable
  open-source LIS that support the quality of laboratory practice in
  LMICs. *Amount of unfunded activities: \$204,402*

### OpenMRS

- **Strengthening OpenMRS:** This investment will go towards improving
  the organizational efficiency and responsiveness of the team through
  hiring resources to lead several core activities to increase community
  engagement, improve the software in the roadmap, expand user and
  technical documentation, and to curate and enhance educational
  curricula and materials. *Amount of unfunded activities: \$260,960*

### Open Concept Lab

- **Strengthening OCL Governance, Community, and Features in Preparation
  for User Growth:** This investment will allow for the implementation
  of a sustained governance model of the Open Concept Lab and allow
  significant improvements to be made to the usability and functionality
  of this global good, particularly for a government audience. *Amount
  of unfunded activities: \$201,300*

### Open Data Kit

- **Technology for Health and Disability: making ODK 2.0 accessible:**
  This funding will build upon the previous work on ODK 2.0 to better
  serve the health community in emerging countries. Specifically, this
  will go towards user research and to iteratively develop enhancements,
  additional features, and development guidelines, and test them with
  key partners before integration into the main ODK 2.0 code. *Amount of
  unfunded activities: \$200,000*

### Pharmadex

- **Enhancement of the medicines registration application Pharmadex:**
  Pharmadex is being used by four national medicines regulatory
  authorities (NMRAs) to ensure they have the most updated medicines
  available and approved for prescribing. Proposal to add features such
  as multiple language support, user-configurable logos, and ability for
  each country to define their own fields and variables to ensure that
  NMRAs that have requested an application for use can easily adopt
  Pharmadex for their country contexts. *Amount of unfunded activities:
  \$118,738*

### PlanWise

- **PlanWise's Optimizing geospatial network coverage:** PlanWise is an
  open-source software tool that uses geospatial modeling and
  optimization techniques to make it simple for an organization to
  understand whom they are helping and to maximize the efficiency impact
  of their services. This proposal seeks to formalize and grow the
  community of implementers, create and deploy a strategy for
  replication and scaled impact, and extend PlanWise functionality to
  fill high-priority community-identified gaps. *Amount of unfunded
  activities: \$278,126*

## List of Global Goods Projects that are Approved - Partially Funded

### DHIS2

- **DHIS2 Community of Practice:** The remaining unfunded work will
  support a full year of the DHIS2 COP to properly establish and
  institutionalize the CoP into the DHIS2 community. The additional year
  of funding support will further and solidify the CoP's place in the
  community, meeting the demands and requirements by having dedicated
  staff and hence ensuring sustainability. *Amount of unfunded
  activities: \$94,175*

### Healthsites

- **Global Healthsites Mapping Project - Building a curated open data
  commons of health facility data with OpenStreetMap:** The remaining
  unfunded work includes: Enhancement of the Healthsites API to support
  the FHIR standard and DHIS2 integration. Development of the
  Healthsites Location Validation Index (LVI) which assesses the
  reliability of health facility data based on Trusted User updates.
  Internationalization and localization of the Healthsites web
  application. Development of the Healthsites mobile application to
  enable users to update existing health facility data in OpenStreetMap.
  Support for campaigns, data creation and sharing in-country by
  supporting OpenStreetMap communities. Skilling up and training local
  champions of open health data to use the mobile
  application.Integration with Whatsapp, SMS and voice-based surveys.
  *Amount of unfunded activities:\$62,010*

### OpenCRVS

- **Strengthening the Open Civil Registration and Vital Statistics
  (OpenCRVS) System:** The unfunded work accounts for the costs of
  recruiting two mid-level developers plus international travel to
  support OpenCRVS work in Bangladesh. This also includes building local
  capacity to harness OpenHIM and Hearth for OpenCRVS. *Amount of
  unfunded activities: \$133,037*

### OpenELIS

- **Integration of the OpenELIS open-source laboratory information
  system with leading clinical and logistics information systems:**
  OpenELIS is an open-source electronic laboratory information system
  software used to track patient testing, diagnosis, and results
  communication.The remaining funded is needed for the workstream
  activity to merge the OpenELIS Global and Bahmni OpenELIS Code Bases.
  *Amount of unfunded activities: \$80,414*

### OpenHIE

- **An Instant OpenHIE:** Support for building in clinical use cases
  that show the instant OpenHIE components working together in a
  clinical use case. *Amount of unfunded activities: \$197,324*

### OpenHIM

- **Strengthening and Expanding the Open Health Information Mediator
  (OpenHIM):** The remaining unfunded work is for supporting
  implementers and the communtity around the core tool. Activities
  include updating and revisiting the full webpresense of the tool;
  updating the website and community platform tools; curation for the
  mediator library and updates to the core and common mediators. *Amount
  of unfunded activities: \$185,238*

### openIMIS

- **openIMIS's open source software for health financing**: The
  investments are in support of the re-platforming and re-architecting
  of the software to a more modern modular approach as well as adding
  interoperability interfaces to allow claims submission from systems
  such as OpenMRS, Bahmni and aggregation in DHIS2. Future investments
  include AI claims adjudication and enhancement of features to serve a
  formal sector requirement.'''

### OpenLMIS

- **Advancing a collaborative, open, and growing community**
- **OpenLMIS Community Engagement:** The remaining investment would be
  for further support to the OpenLMIS community including Regaional East
  and West Africa OpenLMIS workshops, East and West Africa OpenLMIS
  roadshows, and implementer documentation such as the OpenLMIS toolkit.
  Additional activities unfunded include community support to encourage
  open source development on OpenLMIS through programs like Google
  Summer of Code, Outreachy, and Social Coder.

### OpenMRS

- **Strengthening the OpenMRS implementer ecosystem through community,
  quality assurance, education, and partnership:** Support for the
  implementer ecosystem through expanded partnerships in OpenMRS country
  implementation countries. Support for a toolkit and eLearning
  materials for implementers. *Amount of unfunded activities: \$172,365*

### OpenSRP

- **Packaging OpenSRP for Scale and Community-driven National
  Adoption:** The unfunded work is therefore the HR/staffing costs for
  year two, as well the hosting for the platform, as seen below. It will
  help continue the activities of managing, coordinating and promoting
  the CoP in year two. *Amount of unfunded activities: \$1,143,540*

### Open Source LIS Community of Practice

- **Building an Open Source LIS Technologies Community of Practice:**
  The remaining investment would be for supporting development of LIS
  technolgies including software development including coding
  conventions, and expansion for OpenLab Connect. Portion of unfunded
  work includes development of LIS technologies. The work also includes
  support of LIS products to enable interoperability with other systems
  within the OpenHIE architecture. *Amount of unfunded activities:
  \$107,155*

### SORMAS

- **SORMAS-MI: Surveillance Outbreak Response Management and Analysis
  System (SORMAS) - Maturity Improvement through Community Engagement,
  Internationalization and Applicability Enhancement:** This investment
  would go towards hiring a community manager, increasing community
  engagement, improving the software roadmap, expanding user and
  technical documentation, curation and enhancement of educational
  materials, and additional technical development of the SORMAS global
  good.
