This page will outline the overall process for selected applicants for
global good investment(s). As the institution hosting Digital Square,
PATH is the prime recipient of Digital Square awards (see grant and
contract basics for an introduction to vernacular). Therefore,
<a href="Digital_Square_Investments_in_Global_Goods" class="wikilink"
title="Digital Square Investments in Global Goods">Digital Square
Investments in Global Goods</a> is provided through subawards from PATH
(e.g., subagreements or subcontracts for grant or contract type funding,
respectively). Due to the collaborative nature of engagement with
subawardees, PATH frequently employs a cost-reimbursement payment type
in order to allow for more significant modification over the term of the
subaward, if required. There are four key phases in the subaward life
cycle, as further detailed below.

<figure>
<img src="DSq_Agreement_process.png" title="DSq_Agreement_process.png"
width="700" />
<figcaption>DSq_Agreement_process.png</figcaption>
</figure>

# Grant Solicitation Process

Digital Square will pursue competitive
<a href="Grant_Solicitation_Processes" class="wikilink"
title="Grant Solicitation Processes">Grant Solicitation Processes</a> to
facilitate investment in global goods [^1]. The funder will work with
Digital Square to select the appropriate grant solicitation process.
Upon funder or <a href="Board" class="wikilink" title="Board">Board</a>
selection of successful applicant(s), Digital Square will notify
selected applicant(s) to begin the subaward process.

# Pre Subaward

Digital Square will assign a technical and operational manager to
successful applicant(s). At this time, Digital Square will begin two
workstreams: technical and operational.

## Technical

The Digital Square technical manager will work with the selected
applicant(s) to validate the scope of work for the subagreement or
subcontract. Digital Square requires quarterly and final narrative
reporting, at a minimum, for subawardees, in addition to endline
maturity matrix evaluations. This will be reflected in the deliverable
schedule in the scope of work.

## Operational

The PATH project administrator will work with the selected applicant(s)
to obtain necessary information for contracting depending on the funding
type.

### Subaward Intake Form

This online form requests information related to contacts, billing, tax
information, and financial reporting. It also provides information about
PATHâs indirect cost acceptance policy and space to respond to feedback
that the evaluation committee would like addressed prior to the
finalization of the subaward.

### Subrecipient Financial Risk Assessment (Subagreement Only)

The subrecipient must first complete the financial questionnaire and
return it to PATH electronically. PATH project administrators will then
score the questionnaire and determine areas in need of capacity building
to ensure the subrecipient's success. This process helps Digital Square
to deploy the additional Digital Square resources required when granting
a subagreement to a particular organization. An organization classified
as High Risk can still be granted a subagreement but will require higher
levels of monitoring and capacity building.

### Budget

The PATH project administrator will work with the subawardee to obtain a
revised budget and request additional cost-basis validation, as needed.
The subawardee must obtain written approval from PATH prior to the
execution of any third-tier subaward under a subaward. If the subawardee
must pass through funds to another entity in order to accomplish the
proposed scope of work, such entities must be named in the budget under
the respective subaward or consultant budget categories. With such
third-tier subawards, PATH expects that the subawardee will comply with
the following:

  
1.Require each subawardee to agree in writing to comply with the
applicable terms of the subagreement.

2\. Remain liable for the performance of any work so subawarded. All
such subordinate agreements shall be in compliance with the provisions
of the subagreement. The subawardee shall not assign any rights or
duties hereunder without the prior express written consent of PATH.

### Contracting Vehicle

The contracting vehicle will largely be informed by the funder: their
expectations out of the technical scope, their contracting vehicle with
PATH (either grant or contract), and their preferred solicitation
release (e.g., request for application or request for proposal). For
more information, please review the grant and contract basics. The most
common contracting vehicles are listed here for your information.

  
**Cost Reimbursement**

<!-- -->

  
A cost-reimbursable subaward provides payment of actual costs according
to financial reports and is validated by supporting receipts.
Cost-reimbursement types of subawards provide for payment of allowable
incurred costs, where the subawardee establishes an estimate of total
cost for the purpose of obligating funds and establishing a ceiling that
the subawardee may not exceed (except at its own risk) without approval.

<!-- -->

  
This contracting vehicle allows for greater flexibility in determining a
co-created and/or variable scope of work due to environmental,
political, and technical realities.

<!-- -->

  
**Fixed Firm Price Contract or Fixed-Amount Award**

<!-- -->

  
A fixed firm price (FFP) subcontract provides for a price that is not
subject to any adjustment on the basis of the subcontractor's cost
experience in performing the subcontract. This contract type places upon
the subcontractor maximum risk and full responsibility for all costs and
resulting profit or loss. It provides maximum incentive for the
subcontractor to control costs and perform effectively, and imposes a
minimum administrative burden upon the contracting parties.

<!-- -->

  
A fixed-amount award (FAA) is a subgrant agreement where payment is
based on the achievement of milestones, as opposed to the actual costs
incurred by the subrecipient. This type of award reduces some of the
administrative burden and record-keeping requirements for both the
subrecipient and PATH. Accountability is based primarily on performance
and results. It is essential that the program scope is specific and that
adequate cost, historical, or pricing data are available to establish an
FAA with the assurance that the subrecipient will realize no increment
above the actual cost. PATH will award an FAA when programmatic
accomplishments and results are easily quantified into benchmarks or
deliverables.

<!-- -->

  
A fixed-price contracting vehicle provides payment(s) for activities
and/or items according to prices/payment amounts negotiated during the
pre-award phase on the basis of full budgets with associated cost basis
and historical costing/pricing data. Digital Square performs price and
cost analyses on all budgets prior to signature (including rate-based
labor). Payments are not dependent on actual resources used or time
expended; rather, they are based on the discrete delivery of the
identified output, regardless of whether it takes more or less resources
than expected. This payment type is recommended for a short-term
subcontract, where changes to the scope and budget are extremely
unlikely. Advances are not allowable and modifications may only address
the timeline in the payment and deliverable schedule. An amendment may
not add or delete deliverable(s) nor change the subcontract value
because the budget is negotiated and costs are analyzed prior to
signature.

### Negotiate Terms of the Subaward

PATH's Office of Grants and Contracts will prepare a draft subaward
tailored to the inputs provided through the documents above. The PATH
project administrator will share a draft subaward for the subawardee's
technical and organizational review. The subawardee should review all
terms and conditions to ensure its ability to comply. The subawardee
should comment directly in the draft to indicate areas where the terms
may conflict will the subawardee's internal policies and procedures or
their ability to comply, in order to facilitate further discussion with
the technical or operational teams as appropriate.

### Facilitate Signature of the Subaward

Upon resolution of all comments in the draft subaward, the PATH project
administrator will share the draft with the Office of Grants and
Contracts to prepare a final subaward for signature. PATH's practice is
that our partners initiate the signature process. This may be through
paper or electronic signature.

- **Paper:** The project administrator will share a copy of the subaward
  with the subawardee. The subawardee will facilitate organizational
  signature and return to the project administrator, who will facilitate
  PATH countersignature and will return a fully executed copy to the
  subawardee as available.
- **Electronic:** The Office of Grants and Contracts will share a copy
  of the subaward through DocuSign with the designated subawardee and
  PATH signatories.

# Implementation and Management

Digital Square will host a kickoff meeting to bring together the
technical and operational workstreams from PATH and the subawardee to
discuss the subaward and thus ensure clarity on the terms and
conditions. Digital Square will maintain two integrated workstreams
throughout subaward implementation, although the level of engagement
will vary by context.

## Technical

The Digital Square technical manager will provide relationship and
implementation management through regular touch points with subawardees,
as defined in the subaward. S/he will receive all technical workstream
deliverables and will be responsible for reviewing technical
deliverables for accuracy and completion and financial deliverables for
congruity with technical deliverables.

## Operational

The PATH project administrator will receive all operational workstream
deliverables and will be responsible for reviewing financial
deliverables for accuracy and processing payments. The project
administrator will also respond to contractual questions and provide
guidance related to the application of PATH and funder terms and
conditions.

Digital Square may also provide communication support, including
training on strategic communications; guidance on best practices in
writing articles and social media posts; inclusion in the [Digital
Square Global Goods
Guidebook](https://wiki.digitalsquare.io/images/6/62/Global_Goods_Guidebook_v1_28.05.2019.pdf);
development of an article for the Digital Square website; and
amplification of announcements on Digital Square's channels.

# Closeout

Subaward closeout is a process employed to certify compliance with all
terms and conditions of the subaward at the conclusion of the project.
Terms and conditions include: all required deliverables have been
submitted to PATH; there are no outstanding programmatic or financial
issues pending; and the subawardee received all payments according to
each specified deliverable from PATH under the subaward, and there are
no further obligations by either party with respect to the subaward.
PATH employs this process by issuing a final amendment that validates
the above.

<references/>

[^1]: PATH, as an organization, and Digital Square, as an initiative,
    are committed to the requirements of our donors as well as our own
    procurement and selection policies. To that end, we will strive to
    maintain a fair, free, and equitable competitive process for any
    release of funds through the initiative, however, issuance of this
    RFA/RFP/Notice does not constitute an award commitment on the part
    of PATH. Nor does it commit PATH to pay for costs incurred in the
    preparation and submission of an application.
