---
title: Commcare
nav_order: 1
---

# Commcare

CommCare is an open-source digital data collection and service delivery
platform designed to improve data collection and the quality of
frontline services in low-resource settings. CommCare is one of the most
widely adopted and technically advanced digital platforms. Users in 130+
countries used CommCare applications in 2021, and more than 400 million
people have been registered in a CommCare application. CommCare is also
one of the most researched mobile data collection platform, and supports
an evidence base of more than nearly 100 peer-reviewed studies,
including eight randomized controlled trials. Together, these studies
have demonstrated CommCare's positive impact on strengthening frontline
healthcare systems, frontline worker capabilities, and client outcomes.

In addition to CommCare\'s evidence base that speaks to its impact on
frontline programs, users, and clients, there are also a number of
third-party technology evaluations of CommCare. Many of these include
comparisons of CommCare against other digital systems in terms of
features, pricing, reach, maturity, security, etc. CommCare has been
recognized with numerous awards - including a Global Digital Good by the
World Health Organization (WHO) and Digital Square as well as the 53rd
most valuable open-source repository out of 96 million repositories by
GitHub.

CommCare is used across multiple sectors, including healthcare,
education, financial services, government, supply chain, gender
equality, agriculture, and sanitation.

### Approach

Dimagi's most significant contribution to date is the development of its
flagship platform, CommCare - an award-winning, open source digital data
collection and service delivery platform designed to improve data
collection and the quality of frontline services in low-resource
settings. As a no-code platform, CommCare provides a turn-key system
that enables non-developers to quickly build mobile applications, web
applications, and SMS interactions and workflows. This enables CommCare
to meet aggressive timelines and provides the benefit of allowing very
fast iteration on the user experience by allowing multiple rounds of
user testing. The end-result is a product that is well matched to the
expectations of the users. Furthermore, the fact that this system does
not require software development expertise to make changes also means
that an application built on CommCare can be easily handed off to a
local team for maintenance without requiring staff with extensive
technical skills. The long-term sustainability of these applications is
high as program staff can make changes to the system over time and can
pass on responsibility over multiple staff changes without requiring
external training.

Health content in CommCare: A core area of Dimagi's domain expertise is
the design and development of mobile technology platforms on CommCare
that strengthen frontline programs and health systems. Dimagi designs
technology with the intention that it will ultimately be supported by
local capacity. Dimagi has relevant expertise in mobile systems, health
information system (HIS) strengthening, technical training, behavior
change communication, logistics and supply chain management, application
of healthcare data standards, decision support, requirements and
feasibility analysis, and usability design. Dimagi applies the above
skills in an advisory function to in-country technical groups. It also
performs full software development on a broad range of relevant
technologies spanning from the prototype phase to an enterprise national
deployment.

Over 60 studies have demonstrated CommCare's positive impact on
strengthening frontline healthcare systems, frontline worker
capabilities (FLWS), and client results. Several rigorous studies have
been published showing CommCare's impact on child health, including the
largest mobile health RCT to date and a study that shows CommCare's
impact on reducing child mortality.

In what, to CommCare's knowledge, is the largest, most rigorous
evaluation of mobile health to date, Mathematica Policy Research
conducted an RCT to evaluate the impact of equipping FLWs with CommCare
in Bihar. Both control and intervention groups received extensive health
interventions implemented by CARE International. The intervention group
FLWs were additionally given an ICT solution built on CommCare. Relative
to the control end line results, CommCare increased the rate of women
having three ANC visits by 73%, consuming 90 IFA tablets by 58%, using
modern contraceptives by 34%, and immediate breastfeeding by 22%. All
statistically significant results showed higher performance in the
CommCare group. The improvements from CommCare more than doubled most of
the improvements achieved by the core intervention as measured in a
separate study.

The evidence base for CommCare includes many other studies showing
CommCare can help improve behaviors that can avert maternal and newborn
deaths. CRS found that 18 months after introducing CommCare the average
number of FLW visits to pregnant women increased by 26%, 62% more women
reported knowing at least two delivery danger signs, and on average had
41% more ANC check-ups \[CRS 2014\]. In Guatemala, a rural population of
233,000 served by an ICT intervention including CommCare was shown to
reduce the IMR to 13 compared to a comparable control group with an IMR
of 20 (p=0.054). In Zanzibar, D-tree International used CommCare to
improve institutional delivery to 68% compared to control groups that
remained at 40% \[Mitchell, 2014\]. In Afghanistan, World Vision found
that after introducing CommCare, the percentage of women who developed a
birth plan increased from 63% to 76%, the percentage of women who had at
least one ANC visit increased from 53% to 73%, beneficiary knowledge of
at least two danger signs increased from 58% to 71%, and facility
delivery rates rose from 47% to 58% \[World Vision 2012\]. World Vision
found similar results in Mozambique \[World Vision, 2013\].

CommCare has also been shown to improve FLW performance in providing
better access to and quality of care. An RCT in Tanzania showed that SMS
alerts to FLWs and their supervisors using real-time CommCare data
increased timely FLW home visits by 85% \[DeRenzi, 2012\]. In South
Africa, CDIA conducted an RCT to compare cardiovascular disease
screening on paper vs. using CommCare. Training with CommCare was 3
hours compared to 12.3 hours using the paper tool; screening time was
41% faster with CommCare (p = \<0.0001), and the paper tool had 3.8%
error in calculating the risk score, while the CommCare algorithm had no
calculation error \[Surka, 2014\]. In Mexico and Guatemala, Harvard
Medical School conducted a study of 17 FLWs that found the use of
CommCare consistently resulted in a higher medicine dosing accuracy
compared to a paper-based tool \[Palazuelos 2013\]. In Nigeria,
Pathfinder International found that CommCare increased the quality score
for ANC visits from 13.3 at baseline to 17.2 at the end line
(p\<0.0001), out of a possible score of 25 \[Pathfinder 2014\].

### Implementations

CommCare has wide reach and use in many countries worldwide. Please note
the information below:

a\. 3000+ project are affiliated with CommCare b. 130+ countries with
CommCare users c. 700,000+ frontline workers supported through CommCare
d. 400 million+ people supported with CommCare

It has been used at a national scale in the following countries: India,
Burkina Faso, Senegal, Benin, Ethiopia, Malawi, Mozambique, South
Africa. A global map with national scale projects can be accessed
[here.](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1L7wSzKA-FI38hCLIHmhXE8aM83YAJAXF8OVxf2NUYdQ/edit?usp=sharing)

The primary users of the CommCare solution are community health workers
(also known as frontline workers or outreach workers) directly working
with communities in low- and middle-income countries. Depending on the
solution architecture, the CommCare solution can also be used by nurses,
Auxiliary nurse midwives, Anganwadi workers, and lab technicians.

### Resources

- Website: <https://dimagi.com/commcare/>
- Source Code:<https://github.com/dimagi/commcare-hq>Â 
- Articles
  - The CommCare Evidence Base includes dozens of studies that explore
    CommCare's impact on frontline programs. This resource lives as an
    online, up-to-date repository, with new studies being shared and
    published frequently. Dimagi maintains the CommCare Evidence Base
    and adds new studies as they are discovered. In addition to
    maintaining the CommCare Evidence Base, Dimagi has also published
    The CommCare Evidence Base Overview. This resource sheds light on
    our key learnings from the studies included in the CommCare Evidence
    Base. To read our analysis of how CommCare and mobile tools in
    general can impact frontline programs at the last mile, please
    download the CommCare Evidence Base Overview. The CommCare evidence
    can be found
    [here](https://www.dimagi.com/toolkits/commcare-evidence-base/)
- Some other links for articles that describe the impact of the tool
  are:
  - <https://news.mit.edu/2020/dimagi-commcare-health-0309>,
    <https://www.ipeglobal.com/upload/covid-19/content/201126Img_2ba83f_covid-19vriddhiworkreport-final.pdf>
  - <https://www.ipas.org/news/got-an-abortion-question-ask-nurse-nisa/>
