---
title: Conflict of Interest and Recusal Policy
nav_order: 1
---

This is the Conflict of Interest and Recusal Policy of the Digital
Square Peer Review Committee.

## Purpose

### Conflicts of interest {#conflicts_of_interest}

Conflicts of interest of varying degrees of significance or natureâare
an unavoidable reality in the conduct of the Peer Review Committeeâs
(the âPRCâ) operations. A conflict of interest in and of itself is not
wrong and may not be unethical, but those involved in
recommendation-making processes on behalf of the PRC must take
appropriate action to ensure disclosure of any actual, perceived, or
potential conflicts of interest. As a result, the PRC will be able to
properly manage conflicts of interest and thus mitigate the operational
and reputational risks inherent in such conflicts.

### Purpose {#purpose_1}

The purpose of this Conflict of Interest and Recusal Policy (this
âPolicyâ) is therefore to protect the integrity and reputation of the
PRCâs recommendation-making processes, particularly in regard to
recommendations that will result in the allocation of resources, by
establishing procedures to identify, evaluate, and address any actual,
perceived, or potential conflicts that may arise. As a basic principle,
such conflicts must be resolved in favor of the PRC. Those involved in
recommendation-making processes on behalf of the PRC will be expected to
abide by the provisions of this Policy.

## Definitions

### PRC Member(s) {#prc_members}

Any Organizational Member, Representative, or Alternate to the PRC.

### Family member(s) {#family_members}

A PRC Memberâs grandparents, parents/guardians, spouse/domestic partner,
siblings, children/dependents, and/or grandchildren.

### Conflict of interest {#conflict_of_interest}

A situation where a PRC Member has an actual, perceived, or potential
organizational or financial/personal interest, as defined below, that
may:

- Affect the conduct of his/her duties and responsibilities with respect
  to Digital Square.
- Create the perception that the PRC Member is using his/her position in
  Digital Square for organizational or personal financial gain at the
  expense of Digital Square.

### Organizational interest {#organizational_interest}

An organizational interest arises when a PRC Member is an officer,
director, trustee, partner, or (negotiating to become) an employee of an
entity that may benefit financially from a recommendation on which
he/she would make a recommendation.

### Financial/personal interest {#financialpersonal_interest}

A PRC Member has a financial/personal interest when he/she or any family
member may benefit financially or in any other significant way from a
transaction or other financial arrangement between Digital Square and an
entity with which the PRC Member has:

- An ownership or investment interest.
- A senior leadership or board member position (whether paid or unpaid).
- A direct or indirect compensation arrangement, including through a
  business, investment, or family member, or in the form of substantial
  gifts or favors.
- A potential in securing any of the above.

## Conflict of interest established {#conflict_of_interest_established}

PRC Members will not use their position of influence to secure any
financial gain for themselves, their family members, or the
organizations with which they are affiliated. There are several
possibilities for determining whether an actual, perceived, or potential
conflict exists:

- A PRC Member discloses that he/she has an actual, perceived, or
  potential conflict.
- The Chair determines an actual, perceived, or potential conflict
  exists.
- The PRC determines an actual, perceived, or potential conflict exists.
- The Governing Board (the âBoardâ) of Digital Square determines an
  actual, perceived, or potential conflict exists.

## Categories of interest {#categories_of_interest}

Interests can generally be categorized according to the following types.

- Direct: A direct interest in any PRC recommendation may be established
  when a PRC Member directly benefits from such recommendation through
  an organizational or personal/financial interest.
- Indirect: An indirect interest in any PRC recommendation may be
  established when a PRC Member indirectly benefits from such
  recommendation through an organizational or financial/personal
  interest.

## Duty to disclose {#duty_to_disclose}

A PRC Member must disclose organizational and/or financial/personal
interests and the nature of such interest when he/she becomes aware that
a conflict exists, could be perceived to exist, or is likely to occur.
Such risks should be disclosed in writing to the Chair upon joining the
PRC (for preexisting conflicts), or before the next PRC review process.

## Recusal

### 1

Though PRC Members bring their experience and affiliations to bear for
the benefit of recommending investments in global goods, they should
also recognize their responsibility to put the interests of global goods
before other interests when taking recommendations on behalf of the PRC.
Concurrently, when discharging their duties, PRC Members are not
required to take recommendations that conflict with the constitution,
regulations, rules, and policies of the organization they represent to
the PRC. Therefore, participation in and disclosure of any actual,
perceived, or potential conflict of interest relevant to a PRC
recommendation should be guided by the provisions of this Policy, with
any such conflict identified and declared.

### 2 {#section_1}

Conflicts should be identified prior to proposal reviews, as outlined in
the section [ \"Duty to
disclose\"](#Duty_to_disclose " "Duty to disclose""){.wikilink}. Should
an actual, perceived, or potential conflict arise during the course of
proposal review, the PRC Member will disclose the conflict to the Chair
as soon as possible upon learning of the possible conflict and in no
event later than the vote.

### 3 {#section_2}

`It will be the responsibility of the Chair to determine the scope and the necessity of recusal from voting, given the type of interest disclosed. The PRC records will reflect the conflicted PRC Memberâs disclosure and whether the conflicted PRC Member participated in or abstained from voting. In occasions of personal interest, the Chair may allocate a recused Representativeâs vote to an Alternate.`

### 4 {#section_3}

`Should an actual, perceived, or potential conflict of interest apply to the Chair, the same recusal process applies. If an actual, perceived, or potential conflict of interest arises during the course of the review, he/she will disclose the conflict, recuse him/herself, and appoint a temporary Chair to call for a vote.`

## Failure to disclose {#failure_to_disclose}

### 1 {#section_4}

Failure to disclose or disputes over whether a conflict exists may be
referred to the PRC for resolution. Failure to disclose a personal
interest by a PRC Member will be addressed in consultation with the
organization providing that Member.

### 2 {#section_5}

Should any PRC Member have reasonable cause to believe that another PRC
Member has failed to disclose an actual, perceived, or potential
conflict of interest, he/she will inform the Chair. The PRC Member will
have an opportunity to explain the alleged failure to disclose. The
reporting PRC Member should have reasonable grounds for suspecting a
violation and must do so in good faith. Knowingly reporting false or
frivolous information is contrary to this Policy.
