---
title: Global Goods Guidebook
nav_order: 1
---

With the Global Goods Guidebook, Digital Square is showcasing some of
the emergent and established global goods that have been invested or
deployed as a result of our unique, open approach. The Digital
Investment Principles have described the need for donors to align around
scalable, sustainable, accessible, interoperable, and evidence-based
digital health global goods that meet country priorities. Digital health
global public goods have an important role to play in moving the needle
from a past era of digital health donor funding characterized by pilots
and other proof-of-concept demonstrations to a future guided by
investments in country-led and country-managed digital health strategies
and systems that can be independently operated, expanded, and sustained
by host governments and local partners over time.

The global health community needs to move away from the current practice
of single application solutions to a more strategic approach that acts
holistically with both current country priorities and long-term goals
for health system strengthening. By better coordinating the development
of digital health global goods, such as those presented in this
guidebook, stakeholders involved in digital health can reduce
duplication and ensure that platforms are not only more aligned with
priorities but that they strengthen national systems

This Global Goods guidebook focuses a living document with regular
revisions. The information in this guidebook has been provided by the
global goods themselves and has not been validated by Digital Square for
accuracy.

## Endorsements

The Guidebook has been endorsed by:

- BMGF
- DIAL
- giz
- UNICEF
- USAID

## Version 1.0 {#version_1.0}

In this inaugural edition (version 1.0), we have limited consideration
to global goods that are approved for investments through Digital
Square. Future iterations will be more comprehensive in scope, and the
eligibility criteria for inclusion in the guidebook will be developed in
consultation with the Digital Health & Interoperability Working Group
(DH&I WG) of the Health Data Collaborative. With this guidebook, Digital
Square is showcasing some of the emergent and established global goods
that have been invested or deployed as a result of our unique, open
approach.

\<ADD LINK TO VERSION 1.0\>
