---
title: Global Good Agreement Process
nav_order: 1
---

This page will outline the overall process for selected applicants for
global good investment(s). As the institution hosting Digital Square,
PATH is the prime recipient of Digital Square awards (see grant and
contract basics for an introduction to vernacular). Therefore,
investment in global goods through Digital Square is provided through
subawards from PATH (e.g., subagreements or subcontracts for grant or
contract type funding, respectively). Due to the collaborative nature of
engagement with subawardees, PATH frequently employs a
cost-reimbursement payment mechanism in order to allow for more
significant modification over the term of the subaward, if required.
There are four key phases in the subaward life cycle, as further
detailed below.

# Procurement Process {#procurement_process}

Digital Square will pursue a competitive procurement process to
facilitate investment in global goods. The funder will work with Digital
Square to select one of the following procurement processes . Upon
funder or Governing Board selection of successful applicant(s), Digital
Square will notify selected applicant(s) to begin the subaward process.

# Pre Subaward {#pre_subaward}

Digital Square will assign a technical and operational manager to
successful applicant(s). At this time, Digital Square will begin two
workstreams: technical and operational. Technical The Digital Square
technical manager will work with the selected applicant(s) to validate
the scope of work for the subagreement or subcontract. Digital Square
requires quarterly and final narrative reporting, at a minimum, for
subawardees, in addition to endline maturity matrix evaluations. This
will be reflected in the deliverable schedule in the scope of work.
Operational The PATH project administrator will work with the selected
applicant(s) to obtain necessary information for contracting depending
on the funding type. 1. Subaward Intake Form This online form requests
information related to contacts, billing, tax information, and financial
reporting. It also provides information about PATHâs indirect cost
acceptance policy and space to respond to feedback that the evaluation
committee would like addressed prior to the finalization of the
subaward. 2. Subrecipient Financial Risk Assessment (Subagreement Only)
The subrecipient must first complete the financial questionnaire and
return it to PATH electronically. PATH project administrators will then
score the questionnaire and determine areas in need of capacity building
to ensure the subrecipientâs success. This process helps Digital Square
to deploy the additional Digital Square resources required when granting
a subagreement to a particular organization. An organization classified
as âHigh Riskâ can still be granted a subagreement but will require
higher levels of monitoring and capacity building. 3. Budget The PATH
project administrator will work with the subawardee to obtain a revised
budget and request additional cost-basis validation, as needed. The
subawardee must obtain written approval from PATH prior to the execution
of any third-tier subaward under a subaward. If the subawardee must pass
through funds to another entity in order to accomplish the proposed
scope of work, such entities must be named in the budget under the
respective subaward or consultant budget categories. With such
third-tier subawards, PATH expects that the subawardee will comply with
the following: 1. Require each subawardee to agree in writing to comply
with the applicable terms of the subagreement. 2. Remain liable for the
performance of any work so subawarded. All such subordinate agreements
shall be in compliance with the provisions of the subagreement. The
subawardee shall not assign any rights or duties hereunder without the
prior express written consent of PATH. 4. Contracting Vehicle The
contracting vehicle (e.g., contracting mechanism and payment mechanism)
will largely be informed by the funder: their expectations out of the
technical scope, their contracting vehicle with PATH (either grant or
contract), and their preferred solicitation release (e.g., request for
application or request for proposal). For more information, please
review the grant and contract basics . The two most commonly used
contracting vehicles are listed here for your information. Cost
Reimbursement A cost-reimbursable subaward provides payment of actual
costs according to financial reports and is validated by supporting
receipts. Cost-reimbursement types of subawards provide for payment of
allowable incurred costs, where the subawardee establishes an estimate
of total cost for the purpose of obligating funds and establishing a
ceiling that the subawardee may not exceed (except at its own risk)
without approval. This contracting vehicle allows for greater
flexibility in determining a co-created and/or variable scope of work
due to environmental, political, and technical realities. Fixed Firm
Price Contract or Fixed-Amount Award A fixed firm price (FFP)
subcontract provides for a price that is not subject to any adjustment
on the basis of the subcontractorâs cost experience in performing the
subcontract. This contract type places upon the subcontractor maximum
risk and full responsibility for all costs and resulting profit or loss.
It provides maximum incentive for the subcontractor to control costs and
perform effectively, and imposes a minimum administrative burden upon
the contracting parties. A fixed-amount award (FAA) is a subgrant
agreement where payment is based on the achievement of milestones, as
opposed to the actual costs incurred by the subrecipient. This type of
award reduces some of the administrative burden and record-keeping
requirements for both the subrecipient and PATH. Accountability is based
primarily on performance and results. It is essential that the program
scope is specific and that adequate cost, historical, or pricing data
are available to establish an FAA with the assurance that the
subrecipient will realize no increment above the actual cost. PATH will
award an FAA when programmatic accomplishments and results are easily
quantified into benchmarks or deliverables. A fixed-price contracting
vehicle provides payment(s) for activities and/or items according to
prices/payment amounts negotiated during the pre-award phase on the
basis of full budgets with associated cost basis and historical
costing/pricing data. Digital Square performs price and cost analyses on
all budgets prior to signature (including rate-based labor). Payments
are not dependent on actual resources used or time expended; rather,
they are based on the discrete delivery of the identified output,
regardless of whether it takes more or less resources than expected.
This type of payment mechanism is recommended for a short-term
subcontract, where changes to the scope and budget are extremely
unlikely. Advances are not allowable and modifications may only address
the timeline in the payment and deliverable schedule. An amendment may
not add or delete deliverable(s) nor change the subcontract value
because the budget is negotiated and costs are analyzed prior to
signature. 5. Negotiate Terms of the Subaward PATHâs Office of Grants
and Contracts will prepare a draft subaward tailored to the inputs
provided through the documents above. The PATH project administrator
will share a draft subaward for the subawardeeâs technical and
organizational review. The subawardee should review all terms and
conditions to ensure its ability to comply. The subawardee should
comment directly in the draft to indicate areas where the terms may
conflict will the subawardeeâs internal policies and procedures or their
ability to comply, in order to facilitate further discussion with the
technical or operational teams as appropriate. 6. Facilitate Signature
of the Subaward Upon resolution of all comments in the draft subaward,
the PATH project administrator will share the draft with the Office of
Grants and Contracts to prepare a final subaward for signature. PATHâs
practice is that our partners initiate the signature process. This may
be through paper or electronic signature. Paper The project
administrator will share a copy of the subaward with the subawardee. The
subawardee will facilitate organizational signature and return to the
project administrator, who will facilitate PATH countersignature and
will return a fully executed copy to the subawardee as available.
Electronic The Office of Grants and Contracts will share a copy of the
subaward through DocuSign with the designated subawardee and PATH
signatories.

# Implementation and Management {#implementation_and_management}

Digital Square will host a kickoff meeting to bring together the
technical and operational workstreams from PATH and the subawardee to
discuss the subaward and thus ensure clarity on the terms and
conditions. Digital Square will maintain two integrated workstreams
throughout subaward implementation, although the level of engagement
will vary by context. Technical The Digital Square technical manager
will provide relationship and implementation management through regular
touch points with subawardees, as defined in the subaward. S/he will
receive all technical workstream deliverables and will be responsible
for reviewing technical deliverables for accuracy and completion and
financial deliverables for congruity with technical deliverables.
Operational The PATH project administrator will receive all operational
workstream deliverables and will be responsible for reviewing financial
deliverables for accuracy and processing payments. The project
administrator will also respond to contractual questions and provide
guidance related to the application of PATH and funder terms and
conditions. Digital Square may also provide communication support,
including training on strategic communications; guidance on best
practices in writing articles and social media posts; inclusion in the
Digital Square Global Goods Guidebook ; development of an article for
the Digital Square website; and amplification of announcements on
Digital Squareâs channels.

# Closeout

Subaward closeout is a process employed to certify compliance with all
terms and conditions of the subaward at the conclusion of the project.
Terms and conditions include: all required deliverables have been
submitted to PATH; there are no outstanding programmatic or financial
issues pending; and the subawardee received all payments according to
each specified deliverable from PATH under the subaward, and there are
no further obligations by either party with respect to the subaward.
PATH employs this process by issuing a final amendment that validates
the above.
