---
title: GNU Health
nav_order: 1
---

# GNU Health {#gnu_health}

GNU Health is a free/libre ecosystem in healthcare. It is modular,
extensible, builds on top of proven Free/Libre software (like Python,
PostgreSQL, GnuPG), supports open standards (like HL7/FHIR), and is
developed by a worldwide community. GNU Health contains elements for
individuals (MyGNUHealth), Health practitioners and hospitals (GNU
Health HMIS, Health Management, and Information System, and Ministry of
Health /local and regional health networks (GNU Health Federation).

### Approach

- GNU Health Hospital Management (HMIS)

GNU Health HMIS component for Health Practitioners, Health Institutions
and Governments. Its modular design allows to be deployed in many
different scenarios: from small private offices, to large, national
public health systems. It covers the functionality of Electronic Medical
Record (EMR), Hospital Management and Health Information System (HIS).
GNU Health HMIS component is standard-based, and it provides over 40
packages/modules (primary care, obstetrics & gynecology, pediatrics,
surgery, lims, genetics, diagnostic imaging, reporting\...) to fit
institutional needs. The GH HMIS combines the socioeconomic determinants
of health with state-of-the-art technology in bioinformatics and
clinical genetics. It manages the internal processes of a health
institution, such as financial management, billing, stock management,
pharmacies or labs (LIMS) As GNU Health builds on top of Tryton, the
functionality of GNU Health can be extended by using additional modules
from Tryton (\~140 modules).

- GNU LIMS Laboratory

GNU LIMS, also known as Occhiolino, is a modern Laboratory Information
Management System for the healthcare and biomedical sectors, that has
emerged as a GNU Health sub-project. The Laboratory Modules manage the
request, creation and evaluation of laboratory analyses. As far as the
LIMS (Laboratory Information Management System) functionality, GNU
Health is very flexible. A user will be able to link it to the patient
chart and to the financial management of the Health Center.

- MyGNUHealth

The GNU Health Personal Health Record (PHR) MyGNUHealth is the GNUHealth
Personal Health Record application for desktop and mobile devices that
integrates with the GNU Health Federation. MyGNUHealth development uses
the latest mobile and desktop technology, such as Qt, KDE Plasma and the
Kirigami framework. MyGNUHealth Personal Health Record is a
privacy-oriented PHR, that will put the citizen and the patient in
control of her health and medical information. MyGNUHealth enhances and
improves the interaction between citizens and healthcare professionals,
with updated information on demographics and medical information.

- GNU Health Federation

The GNU Health Federation allows to build large, nation wide federated
networks with thousands of heterogeneous nodes. The GNU Health
Federation is revolutionary and will provide the community, the health
practitioners, the research institutions and the ministries of health to
have much better perspective and precise information on the individuals
and their context. The GNU Health Federation project aims to build a
community-based, federated health network among different regions and in
a country, and, why not, among countries around the globe. A federation
can be as large as you want. From a small regional federated network
with several nodes to a large, nationwide health network with
thousands/millions of participating nodes.

- GNU Health Embedded

Single-board Computers (SBC) are devices with a huge potential for the
Public Health System when partnering with GNU Health. They can provide
real-time monitoring of vital signs in hospital settings, retrieve
information from laboratory instruments or be a great Personal Health
tracker. They are also a great resource for research and academic
institutions.

- GNU Health Social Medicine

GNU Health as a social movement: GNU Health is a social project with
technology behind. Itâ€™s about Social Medicine and delivering universal
healthcare. It is about social activism. One of the main reasons that
led to the creation of GNU Health were the tremendous inequalities in
access to healthcare. Over 20000 children die every day from
preventable, social diseases. To name a few: malnutrition, contaminated
water, child slavery, prostitution, war, malaria, HIV-AIDS,
tuberculosis, dengue and other neglected tropical diseases. These are
causes and/or results of social diseases, conditions that have a higher
impact and higher prevalence on the poor and the underprivileged.

Studying and getting a deeper understanding on the living conditions of
people in rural areas and in urban ghettos around the world, reinforced
the intention to write a system that included the socio-economic
determinants of health and disease. Most of the time, health (and the
lack of) is determined by the environment, and biology plays a lesser
role. Proper nutrition, housing, sanitation, access to education and to
primary healthcare are key for the dignity, development and health of
the individual, family and society at large.

### Implementations

GNU Health is a global project with implementations around the globe.
Because it is Free/Libre Software, anyone can download it, with no
tracking, so it\'s hard to estimate the actual number of
implementations. GNU Health HMIS has been implemented governments, and
public and private institutions around the world, including multilateral
organizations such as WHO.

The GNU Health project provides the tools for individuals, health
professionals, institutions, and governments to proactively assess and
improve the underlying determinants of health, from the socioeconomic
agents to the molecular basis of disease. From primary health care to
precision medicine.

### Resources

- Website: <https://en.m.wikibooks.org/wiki/GNU_Health> -\> GNU Health
  HMIS Node Technical Guide
- Source Code: <https://savannah.gnu.org/hg/?group=health>
- Article
  - Open Source Digital Health Software for Resilient, Accessible, and
    Equitable Healthcare Systems. Contribution from the IMIA Open Source
    Working Group May 2022. IMIA Yearbook of Medical Informatics 2022
    Chris Paton, JÃ¸rn Braa, Andrew Muhire, Luis Marco-Ruiz, Shinji
    Kobayashi, Hamish Fraser, Luis FalcÃ³n, Alvin Marcelo
  - Using Open Source, Open Data, and Civic Technology to Address the
    COVID-19 Pandemic and Infodemic. April 2021 Yearbook of Medical
    Informatics. Shinji Kobayashi, Luis FalcÃ³n, Hamish Fraser, JÃ¸rn
    Braa, Pamod Amarakoon, Alvin Marcelo, Chris Paton
  - GNU Health: A Free/Libre Community-based Health Information System
    August 2016. OpenSym \'16: Proceedings of the 12th International
    Symposium on Open Collaboration Luis FalcÃ³n
  - Moving Beyond eHealth Systems for \'People Like Us.\'January 2013.
    Studies in Health Informatics Paul Turner, Andre Kushniruk, Pernille
    Bertelsen, Luis Falcon, Chris Showell
  - Collaboration, Openness, Transparency, and Trust as Prerequisite for
    High Quality, Effective and Efficient Health Care MEDINFO 2013.
    Thomas Karopka, Syed Mohamed Aljunid, Nurhizam Safie, Luis Falcon,
    Holger Schmuhl, Kjeld Lisby
