---
title: IHRIS
nav_order: 1
---

# iHRIS

iHRIS is a free and open source software solution that has been used by
ministries of health, district health offices, and health care
facilities in over 30 countries to more easily collect, maintain,
analyze, and manage health workforce data and resources. Many countries
experience critical shortages of health workers and struggle to meet the
health care needs of their people. The COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated
this problem, making it more difficult for health workers to deliver
lifesaving, people-centered care. Effective health workforce management
is crucial for countries to address these gaps. Human resources managers
and other decision-makers require up-to date and accurate data on the
current number of health workers, where they are deployed, their skill
sets, and information on vacant posts and migration. Yet many countries
lack this information in a central database, making it difficult to
locate employee records or aggregate data for analysis.

### Approach

iHRIS is a human resource information system that helps countries around
the world track and manage their health workforce data to improve access
to services. Countries use it to capture and maintain high-quality
information for health workforce planning, management, regulation, and
training.

### Implementations

iHRIS has been implemented in more than 30 countries since its first
release in 2005. The primary users include HR managers, planners, and
workforce policy makers at Ministries of Health, Regional Health
Bureaus, Hospitals, and Professional Councils.

### Resources

- Website: www.ihris.org
- Source Code: <https://github.com/iHRIS/iHRIS>
- Articles:
  - <https://www.intrahealth.org/resources/optimizing-data-use-effective-decision-making-managing-kenya%E2%80%99s-health-workforce>
  - <https://www.intrahealth.org/resources/decentralizing-malis-health-workforce-information-system>
  - <https://www.intrahealth.org/resources/ihris-principles-digital-development-assessment>\"
