---
title: Market Maturity Methodology
nav_order: 1
---

\_\_FORCETOC\_\_

This page outlines the methodology used to

# Overview of early adopter countries on the Global Digital Health Index {#overview_of_early_adopter_countries_on_the_global_digital_health_index}

The 22 early adopter countries on the [Global Digital Health Index
(GDHI)](https://www.digitalhealthindex.org/) opted onto the platform in
order to use this benchmarking tool to track critical data on the status
of each countryâs digital health ecosystem, as well as to learn from the
experience of other countries. The initial countries to participate,
profiled in Table 1, included those who contributed to the design and
testing of the GDHI by participating in the design workshops and testing
the prototype version of the platform. GDHI also leveraged regional
digital health networks such as the [Asia eHealth Information Network
(AeHIN)](http://www.aehin.org/) to encourage member countries to
participate and ensure a diverse set of countries across all regions are
represented on GDHI.

The GDHI countries are spread across five continents, with many in
Sub-Saharan Africa and Asia. Countries at different size, stages of
economic growth and digital health development are represented, and
while there is often a correlation between the GDP per capita of the
country and their digital health ecosystem maturity, this is not always
the case. For example, Malaysia has the most mature digital health
ecosystem on GDHI even though it does not have the highest GDP per
capita of the countries represented.

# Reliability assessment: Methods to do a quantitative comparison {#reliability_assessment_methods_to_do_a_quantitative_comparison}

To extend the GDHI to countries that have not yet reported on the
platform, a series of comparator indicators were developed based on the
World Economics Forum\'s [Networked Readiness
Index](http://reports.weforum.org/global-information-technology-report-2016/networked-readiness-index/)
(see Figure 1 and Table 2). Indicator criteria were defined as follows:

- Must relate to the GDHI indicators
- Must be available for most, and ideally all, countries on an annual
  basis
- Must be translatable to a 5-point scale in order to develop a
  comparative maturity model

Three World Economic Forum (WEF) pillars, supported by 17 indicators and
feeding into two sub-indexes, were identified from the Networked
Readiness Index as meeting these criteria; the framework roughly
corresponds to the WHO/ITU building blocks around which the GDHI is
structured. While the WEF Network Readiness Index does not focus
exclusively on health, it is designed to broadly measure how countries
are performing in the digital world. A wide range of data is used to
populate the index, including utilizing data from international agencies
(e.g., UN agencies and the World Bank), as well as collecting opinions
from more than 14,000 business executives located in more than 140
countries.

The three pillars selected for this analysis are the (1) political and
regulatory environment, (2) infrastructure and digital content, and (3)
skills . The political and regulatory environment pillar assesses the
extent to which national legal frameworks promote ICT penetration and
the safe development of ICT business practices. This includes
intellectual property protection, software piracy rates, and efficiency
of legal frameworks. The infrastructure and digital content pillar
provides information on the ICT infrastructure including electricity,
mobile network coverage, international bandwidth coverage, and secure
internet servers. Lastly, the skills pillar evaluates the extent to
which a society can effectively use and potentially benefit from ICT
based on the quality of education, secondary education enrollment rate
and literacy.

With the three pillars and their supporting indicators identified,
country level data was pulled for all 139 countries from the WEF website
in September 2018. Each indicator and pillar data point is scored on a
scale of 1-7. For each country, the average score across the three
pillars was calculated. The scores were then re-indexed on a scale of
1-5, and rounded to the nearest whole number. For the countries not
included in the WEF database, the median index from countries in the
same region and with the same World Bank income classification was used
as a proxy.

In order to assess reliability, indicator 15 of the Global Digital
Health Index, which is the overall WEF Network Readiness score, was
removed to retain independence across measures. Indicator 16 thus become
the sole contributor to Category 6, and Category 6 assumed the value of
Indicator 16. GDHI category indicators were then averaged and compared
directly to the WEF categories, before an average of categories was
taken for both indices and rounded to return a single value.

# Results of the reliability assessment {#results_of_the_reliability_assessment}

Following the analysis of the comparator indicators, the self-reported
GDHI country maturity levels were compared to the WEF comparator
indicators (see Figure 2). Twelve countries (or 55%) had a GDHI score
equivalent to the comparator, and 5 countries (or 23%) had a GDHI score
of one level higher than that of the comparator. Of the five remaining
countries, two (Kuwait and Mongolia) had a GDHI score one level lower
than that of the WEF comparator analysis. Two countries (Mali and
Bangladesh) had GDHI maturity two levels higher than that of the WEF
comparator analysis, and one country (New Zealand) had a GDHI maturity
two levels lower than that suggested by WEF comparator analysis. The
correlation co-efficient is 0.43 and the R-square value is 0.19.

# Discussion and Conclusion {#discussion_and_conclusion}

For the reliability assessment, the lower-than-expected correlation can
primarily be explained by two important, related factors. It is notable
that out of 22 countries, only three GDHI scores are lower than the WEF
comparator analysis score whereas eight GDHI scores are higher. GDHI is
self-reported and tailored to a specific context (digital health)
whereas the WEF comparator indicators are based on indices from a
third-party source (notably with some qualitative inputs) and not
sector-specific. Context-specific data may yield more accurate results,
and digital health may be ahead of generic trends in local digital
landscapes. Second, self-reported data often yields more positive
results than third-party data, and may also in part explain the general
trend of countries reporting higher GDHI maturity levels. Finally, since
only whole values are used in both 5-point maturity level assessments, a
one-level difference in maturity quantitatively translates to a 20%
difference on a five-point scale. Whole values with such large
differentials can distort correlational calculations and understate
concordance between assessments. For these reasons, the fact that 19/22
countries were within one level of maturity is a stronger indication of
concordance than the correlation coefficient and r-square values.

The new global digital health index, presented in this analysis, is a
useful extension to the GDHI for several reasons. First, the analysis
includes 139 countries as compared to the 22 currently captured in GDHI.
Until more rigorous and country-led maturity model assessments are
resourced and institutionalized, this model gives us an understanding of
digital health maturity levels across a large cohort of countries. WEF
indicators are uploaded annually, which is critical given the rapidly
changing digital health field. Lastly, the new index does not
exclusively rely on self-reported inputs making it an objective
complement to self-assessment-based models.

Unfortunately, in a world without rigorous and country-led maturity
model assessments, this model has major limitations that must be
carefully considered when using this information. First, the WEF
indicators capture cross-sectoral information and do not account for the
health sector being more or less mature than the overall ICT sector in a
given country. Second, a country-level analysis has some value, but a
more granular analysis would likely reveal more actionable findings. For
example, there can be large sub-national variations (e.g. urban vs
rural). Third, itâs very possible that the concordance levels change as
more countries contribute to the GDHI; 22 is not a large number and the
correlation could look quite different if 50 or more countries
contribute to the GDHI.

While there is a reasonable agreement between the GDHI and the
extension, additional research is needed to identify a more
comprehensive list of indicators to assess digital health maturity. Our
hope is that these analytics inspire further investment and engagement
in developing a world-wide, annually measured indicator of country
digital health maturity that factors in both self-reported and objective
measures.
