---
title: Membership Policy
nav_order: 1
---

This is the Membership Policy of the Digital Square Peer Review
Committee.

## Purpose

The purpose of this PRC Membership Policy (this âPolicyâ) is to
delineate the criteria for membership on the Peer Review Committee (the
âPRCâ) of Digital Square.

## Peer Review Committee composition {#peer_review_committee_composition}

The PRC will be comprised of a diverse set of the foremost leaders and
thinkers in digital health technology. The PRC will not have a limit on
the number of members. Seats will be allocated to organizations, which
will appoint expert representatives. Organizations will assign one PRC
Representative and one Alternate to each seat, both of whom should meet
the membership criteria.

## Member selection criteria {#member_selection_criteria}

### Commitment

Availability and commitment to contributing time, including, at minimum,
participation in three annual and six reading days. Ad hoc meetings,
reading days, and virtual communication will be called for as needed.
The total time commitment is estimated at up to one day per month.

### Expertise

Recognized as experts in global health informatics, information
technology, software development, interoperability, and regional and
global digital health systems. Members should fulfill a balanced
representation of the diverse group of stakeholders in digital health,
including country governments, donor organizations, implementing
organizations, technology vendors, and other stakeholders.

### Collaboration

Willingness and commitment to engaging in discussion of ideas and
dialogue to explore a variety of solutions.

### Commitment to the Principles of Digital Development {#commitment_to_the_principles_of_digital_development}

Ability and enthusiasm to act as an ambassador and advocate for the
Principles of Digital Development.

### Judgment

High-level judgment in complex situations and acute analytical skills.

### Conflict of interest {#conflict_of_interest}

Ability and willingness to abide by the PRCâs Conflict of Interest and
[Recusal
Policy](Conflict_of_Interest_and_Recusal_Policy "Recusal Policy"){.wikilink}.

## Member selection process {#member_selection_process}

### Process

The Digital Square management team, in conjunction with the existing PRC
Members, will conduct a consultative process to recruit PRC Members,
leveraging relationships with the Health Data Collaborativeâs Digital
Health and Interoperability Working Group and the wider digital health
community.

### List of candidates {#list_of_candidates}

The Digital Square management team, with guidance from the Digital
Square Director, existing PRC Members, the Chair, and other
stakeholders, will review interested organizations for eligibility
criteria for PRC membership.

### Selection

The existing PRC Members, the Digital Square Director, and the Chair
will recruit PRC Members that are willing to fulfill the expectations of
membership on the PRC.

## Membership

### Member Organizations {#member_organizations}

All seats on the PRC are allocated to organizations, which are Member
Organizations. Each Member Organization will be represented by a
Representative and must appoint at least one Alternate to the PRC.

### Representatives

Individuals appointed to represent their organization to the PRC are
Representatives. The Representative must have the capacity and authority
to represent the Member Organization in discussions and
recommendation-making. Each Member Organization may change its
Representative at its own discretion; however, the Member Organization
is required to notify the PRC at in advancereview.

### Alternates

Member Organizations must appoint at least one Alternate to the PRC.
Alternates may serve in place of Representatives due to a
Representativeâs absence or the Alternateâs superior subject matter
knowledge. There is no limit to Alternatesâ participation in PRC
web-conferences and deliberation; however, only one vote is allocated to
each Member Organization.

### PRC Members {#prc_members}

PRC Members refers inclusively to Member Organizations, Representatives,
and Alternates.

## Term

There is no term length for PRC membership; however, Representatives
should plan to participate for a minimum of one year for continuity.
Member Organizations may change their Representative at their own
discretion; however, the Member Organization is required to notify the
PRC Chair review.

## Member guidelines {#member_guidelines}

### Responsibilities

- Review all investment proposals, utilizing the global goods criteria.
- Support Digital Square by providing recommendations on which proposals
  to move forward for investment, investigate further, or decline
  outright.
- Support the Digital Square management team by providing additional
  technical guidance as requested in regard to green or amber lit
  investment proposals.
- Share knowledge and provide technical and strategic advice in areas of
  expertise.

### Participation

Members are required to participate in three annual review processes.
Participation will be recorded.

### Alternates {#alternates_1}

PRC Members may send one of their Alternates to participate in their
absence. If neither the Representative nor any of the Alternates is
available, a proxy may participate, with three daysâ prior written
notice and approval from the Chair. Proxies must meet membership
criteria.

### Acting in good faith {#acting_in_good_faith}

Subject to their respective roles, PRC Members will act in good faith in
the best interests of the development of digital health global goods.

### Conflict of interest {#conflict_of_interest_1}

All PRC Members will abide by the PRCâs Conflict of Interest and
[Recusal
Policy](Conflict_of_Interest_and_Recusal_Policy "Recusal Policy"){.wikilink}.

### Fulfillment of obligations {#fulfillment_of_obligations}

A PRC Member who does not fulfill his/her responsibilities as described
in this Policy or misses two review processes without reasonable
explanation will be asked by the Chair to resign. If the PRC Member
refuses to resign, a vote will be taken on the removal of the Member
from the PRC.

### Resignation

A Member Organization may resign at any time by giving notice in writing
to the Chair and the Digital Square Director at least four weeks in
advance.

### Representative resignation {#representative_resignation}

Should a Member Organization change its Representative or a
Representative resign from his/her role with the Member Organization, an
Alternate should fill the role as Representative and the Member
Organization should appoint another Alternate. The Member Organization
should give notice in writing to the Chair and the Digital Square
Director at least four weeks in advance.
