---
title: Navigator for Digital Health Capability Models
nav_order: 1
---

The Digital Health Maturity Model Navigator (also called the
\'Navigator\') enables health planners, implementers, evaluators, and
funders to (i) identify and use the most appropriate health information
system digital readiness assessment indicators from across six related
tools and (ii) leverage past maturity model-based assessments for
improving digital heath capabilities at the national and sub-national
levels. The Navigator comprises two main components:

1.  A guidance document that explains what the Navigator materials are
    and why they are needed, discusses how and when to use the
    materials, and identifies who should use them. The materials include
    a detailed PDF document and an Excel-based decision-support
    workbook.
    1.  The Excel-based decision support workbook can be used to (i)
        identify and use the most appropriate maturity model-based
        tool(s) and (ii) leverage past maturity model-based assessments.

2\. A slide deck that provides an abbreviated overview of the Navigator
and serves as an introductory tutorial. The Navigator includes six
maturity model-based tools: 1. Early-Stage Digital Health Investment
Tool (EDIT) 2. Global Digital Health Index (GDHI) 3. Health Information
System Stages of Continuous Improvement (SOCI) 4. Health Information
Systems Interoperability Maturity Toolkit (IMM) 5. Information Systems
for Health Toolkit (IS4H) 6. Survey, Count, Optimize, Review, Enable
(SCORE) The Navigator was developed in collaboration with the Digital
Health and Interoperability Working Group of the Health Data
Collaborative under the guidance of an advisory team comprised of
members from the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID), the World Health Organization, UNICEF, World Bank, the Country
Health Information Systems and Data Use (CHISU) project, and Kati
Collective, Inc. The Navigator project was funded by the Digital Square
project of USAID and led by the Carolina Population Center of the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
