---
title: OpenEyes
nav_order: 1
---

# OpenEyes

OpenEyes is an open source electronic patient record (EPR) for
ophthalmology. It has been designed by clinicians to be fast in
delivering content, fast to navigate and easy (and fun) to use. OpenEyes
benefits from a large and growing body of enthusiastic clinicians
determined to make it the EPR that will help health care organisations
deliver data-driven patient care in the best way possible. OpenEyes is
owned by the community and not by any individual or corporate entity. It
can be customized to suit local needs and will scale to connect,
seamlessly, primary and secondary eye care. OpenEyes provides an
Ophthalmic patient record across the globe, enabling clinicians to
support clinical pathways such as cataracts, glaucoma and Retinopathy in
regions that previously may have had limited access to the tools and
resources. It is governed, assured and maintained through the novel
Custodian Model, under the custodianship of the Apperta Foundation.

### Approach

OpenEyes provides users with a full end to end Ophthalmic electronic
patient record, enabling health care organizations to manage their
patient care pathway (referrals, clinics, surgery etc) for ophthalmic
services including, medical retinal services, eye care casualty, adnexal
services, anaesthetics services, cataract services, cornea services,
glaucoma services, neuro-ophthalmic services, oncology services,
paediatrics services, refractive services, strabismus services, uveitis
services and vitreoretinal services.

OpenEyes is used by Ophthalmologists, clinical and non-medical nursing
staff based in secondary care and in some cases in the community.

### Implementations

OpenEyes has been adopted globally. It is available in nearly every WHO
region. Eye care is a global issue and access to services to support
quicker referrals and efficient record keeping is essential. OpenEyes
provides a quick and easy method to implement a full Ophthalmic EPR in
regions that may previously have struggled to do so.

### Resources

- Website: <https://openeyes.apperta.org>
- Source Code: <https://github.com/AppertaFoundation/openeyes>
- Articles:
  - <https://www.eyenews.uk.com/features/ophthalmology/post/specialty-driven-emr-for-paperless-clinical-environment-insights-for-an-informed-choice>
  - <https://www.eyenews.uk.com/reviews/tech-reviews/post/interview-with-clinical-director-of-openeyes>
  - <https://www.eyenews.uk.com/reviews/tech-reviews/post/openeyes-community-edition>\"
