---
title: OpenHIE Testing Harness and Test Framework
nav_order: 1
---

A Health Information Exchange (HIE) makes the sharing of health data
across information systems possible. Like a universal translator, an HIE
normalizes data and secures the transmission of health information
throughout databases, between facilities, and across regions or
countries.

The OpenHIE community has developed a HIE architecture which is made up
of software components, all interacting/interoperating to ensure that
health information from various point-of-service systems is gathered
into a HIE.

Digital Square has contracted Argusoft India Ltd. to develop a harness
and complete test framework that will facilitate testing the conformance
of technologies to the OpenHIE Architecture specification and health and
data content, as specified by WHO SMART Guidelines.

The resulting solution will be leveraged by other software applications
and tools, and as such should have a permissive open-source license as
it may be leveraged by vendors developing OpenHIE/SMART Guidelines
compliant software and other teams, such as the WHO Digital Health
Clearinghouse and the local country validation laboratories to test
compliance of digital health solutions to WHO SMART Guidelines
compliance requirements and/or their defined requirements.

## Vision

The testing harness and test framework will use the Gherkin language to
describe the test features (cases). It will also at the minimum have the
test execution engine, the test scripts and test data. The overall
technology stack to be used is yet to be decided at this time, and the
stack will be shared here after it is agreed upon.

## Roadmap

The project is expected to through the end of June 2024 according to the
timeline below.

![](Testing-harness-time-line.PNG "Testing-harness-time-line.PNG"){width="800"}

## Documentation and Architecture {#documentation_and_architecture}

The documentation will be developed and published on the web. Once
complete, the link to the published documentation will be shared here.

## Contributing

The development of the testing harness and test framework will be open
to the community. The Argusoft team will meet twice a month to provide
progress updates and to also get community feedback. The meetings will
take place at the OpenHIE DevOps calls
[1](https://wiki.ohie.org/display/CP/DevOps+Subcommunity+Calls), and on
the OpenHIE Architecture and Standards calls
[2](https://wiki.ohie.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=11370513). The
community and all other interested stakeholders are highly encouraged to
participate.
