---
title: SORMAS
nav_order: 1
---

# Surveillance Outbreak Response Management and Analysis System (SORMAS) {#surveillance_outbreak_response_management_and_analysis_system_sormas}

The Surveillance Outbreak Response Management and Analysis System is an
open source software for early detection of infections and management of
epidemic control. SORMAS is now in use in numerous countries on several
continents and has been an essential part in managing large epidemics of
Lassa fever, monkey pox, meningitis, measles and the COVID 19 pandemic.

In many countries, laboratories, hospitals, medical offices, airport
physicians, ministries and public health departments work together via
SORMAS. For more than 40 diseases, SORMAS enables digital data exchange
in real time, even horizontally across national or regional borders
SORMAS is one of the world\'s leading systems in this field.

### Approach

SORMAS is a process management software that allows users to document
and analyze outbreaks of infectious diseases and coordinate measures to
prevent their spread. It stores information for affected persons,
suspected and confirmed cases and contacts and allows users to connect
this data to get the \"big picture\". Based on this information staff
can decide upon specific measures and create tasks for different people
or teams working directly with the patients. Due to the open interfaces,
it can also be connected to external systems which allows for automatic
data entry and processing.

The primary users of SORMAS are health professionals from a multitude of
disciplines; Federal Institutions, healthcare workers, hospitals,
doctors and cand contact tracing specialists.

### Implementations

SORMAS is currently in use in numerous countries on several continents
and is actively being used to combat the outbreak of infectious
diseases. Especially during the COVID-19 pandemic multiple countries
decided to implement SORMAS for their contact tracing and process
management.

### Resources

- Website: www.sormas.org
- Documentation: <https://github.com/hzi-braunschweig/SORMAS-Project>
- Articles:
  - <https://publichealth.jmir.org/2021/12/e30106>
  - <https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/eid/article/26/2/19-1139_article>
  - <https://academic.oup.com/eurpub/article/30/Supplement_5/ckaa166.1347/5915340?login=false>
  - <https://publichealth.jmir.org/2018/4/e68/>
  - <https://www.researchgate.net/publication/327270609_User_Evaluation_Indicates_High_Quality_of_the_Surveillance_Outbreak_Response_Management_and_Analysis_System_SORMAS_After_Field_Deployment_in_Nigeria_in_2015_and_2018>\"
