---
title: Vxnaid
nav_order: 1
---

# Vxnaid

Johnson & Johnson (J&J) Global Public Health team have developed and
matured the Vxnaid vaccine monitoring platform over several years. The
platform initially was used to support Ebola vaccination studies in the
context of a vaccine product development trajectory but quickly was
applied in the Public Health context of an Ebola vaccination campaign.
Subsequently, the utility and architecture of the platform was broadened
to make it supportive of any vaccine type and the platform has since
been used in the context of Covid-19 vaccinations. The technology is
built on an OpenMRS open source backbone.

### Approach

Vxnaid is an integrated digital platform ensuring correct administration
of vaccines, identification of vaccines, follow-up/recall of vaccinated
persons and understanding of campaign effectiveness. This is achieved
via the three modules of the platform:

Module I: This module offers various identification methods to
accurately identify and subsequently recognize vaccines throughout
campaign visits. Methods offered vary from manual entry of a unique PID
(participant Identifier), scanning of a bar code that embeds the unique
PID or biometric enabled iris scanning (for those wanting to use a
non-J&J a proprietary license).

Module II: A dashboard of reports that can be consulted that provides
visualization of enrollment rate, an aggregated view of numbers of
persons vaccinated in a campaign, numbers of persons vaccinated at
health center level, compliance numbers for follow-up vaccine
administration (when 2nd or subsequent dose vaccinations should be
administered within a preferred dosing window), operational reports for
field teams highlighting missed visits of vaccines and predicting
numbers of vaccines anticipated to visit the health center in a given
timeframe. Reports can be provided in excel or powerBI (pBI) format (if
stakeholder has a Microsoft pBI account). Data can be exported in
various file formats e.g., csv., excel, PDF and can be prepared from
compatibility with DHIS2 database structures. If the stakeholder has a
pBI account, the dashboard can be consulted on any mobile connected
device such that the dashboard becomes portable.

Module III: An engagement module leverages mobile phone technology to
deliver message content in the local language to a vaccine\'s mobile
phone. Messages can have various delivery formats: pre-recorded voice
messages, SMS or WhatsApp. This approach is used to recall vaccines for
subsequent vaccination or follow-up clinic visits, share engagement
messages, or deliver content to help dispel rumors. Small surveys can
also be issued via this targeted communication approach.

The primary users of the system are those executing vaccination
campaigns in the field as well as management functions overseeing the
performance of the campaigns e.g. Ministries of Health.

### Implementations

Individual modules of this platform have been deployed in Sierra Leone,
Democratic Republic of Congo and the fully integrated platform has been
deployed in its earlier version in Rwanda. WHO are currently using the
integrated platform in support of their Solidarity Vaccines Trial
running for now in Mali, Colombia, Philippines, Sierra Leone and
Tanzania.

### Resources

- Website: <https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/vxnaid/wiki>
- Documentation: <https://github.com/johnsonandjohnson/vxnaid>
- Articles:
  - <https://doi.org/10.1080/21645515.2021.1920872>
  - <https://doi.org/10.2196/28573>
  - <https://extranet.who.int/sph/news/partnering-private-sector-meet-health-security-needs>
  - <https://www.who.int/news/item/26-10-2021-who-statement-on-solidarity-trial-vaccines>
